== Suggestions ==

For making suggestions, follow the pattern by adding your name as a subsection and making a list. For commenting on people's suggestions, add another bullet level below the item.

=== Stolennomenclature ===

* kaffeine (media player + digital tv viewer and recorder)
* klear (digital tv viewer and recorder)
* ardour (sound ecording studio)
* dvdauthor (command line dvd authoring)
* dvdstyler (gui dvd authoring)
* wine (run windows programs)

=== Jonatan ===

* rox-filer 2M
* OroboROX 500K
* rox-lib 200K
* rox-session 1M

=== Carlo ===

* NTPClient 36k

=== Jonas ===

* Grip
* SVN
** hisham: I second this :)
* KMPlayer
* Xine-Lib 11M
* Kaffeine/Gxine ----- stolennomenclature second this
* libdvdcss ----- stolennomenclature second this
* AmaroK
* Audacious
* crond (Dcron/Fcron)
* locate (slocate<!--<!--/-->-->rlocate)

=== LucasVR ===

* Minicom
* Listener, with rules to remove broken links at removal of entries in /Programs

=== djbjrca ===

* GTKPod
* Clisp

=== mre ===

* xmms
** this should not be here as it's a gtk+ 1 app /Jonas
* smb4k
* fluxbox

=== shevegen ===

* MPlayer and FFMpeg from cvs please, including the latest
xvid source (this doesnt need to be from cvs). The CVS versions mostly
work but MPlayer should be checked briefly since it sometimes
has problems to compile from cvs.
** (Btw which gcc version? Can someone add this to the entry above?)
* I am also for a windowmanager, preferrable fluxbox too. It really
loads a lot faster than KDE :)

=== Zaheer MK ===

* GNOME (for latest PCs) ----- stolennomenclature second this
* XFCE (for older PCs)
* GParted (for partitioning HDD) ----- stolennomenclature second this
* GStreamer & based apps (for all multimedia requirements) ----- stolennomenclature second this
* Kindly add the latest version of GNOME & XFCE; atleast please have a version (CD) with the above S/W and all the main GTK+ S/W, making it a true GNU/Linux Desktop OS.
** GoboLinux is a true GNU/Linux Desktop OS without GNOME and i think it would be a waste to have more than one GUI, I also think KDE is the better choice -RiCo
*** I think that there should be at least one lightwieght window manager on the CD. Historically that has been WindowMaker and I think that we should keep it that way. I prefer Gnome over KDE, but I agree that there should only be one primary wondow manager. With the new Gobo CD-tools it should be easy to create user-made CDs with Gnome and/or XFCE. /Jonas
**** GoboLinux KoboLinux XoboLinux... ;-) <!--<!--/-->-->sev

=== TheSleepless ===

* IPRoute2 (apparently ifconfig is deprecated in favour of this)
* IPTables (and perhaps some kind of firewall configuration tool, gobolinux is wide open by default)
** Help and ideas are especially welcome in this regard. Feel free to drop by at the mailing list and share your thoughts. Thanks! -- [[User:Hisham|Hisham]] 22:14, 19 June 2006 (EDT)
*** How about GuardDog (or KMyFirewall, although GuardDog looks a little more straight-forward)? :Peter
* GD
* NTP (configured so that it'll automatically update the user's clock, perhaps an install option, or an on bootup ntpdate 0.pool.ntp.org ?)
** Seconded. Make auto-clock-updating the default. -AndyF
* NIS/YP
* NFS

=== slef ===

* Git (as in the version tracker)
* GPL-Ghostscript (please not AFPL, which restricts commercial distribution - same version is available under GPL today, as far as I can tell)
* GCC built with ObjC and maybe Java support

=== Rafasgj ===

* PyGTK
* Ltrace
* FAAD2
* FAAC

=== Hisham ===

* Gphoto2
* LibGphoto2
* NFS stuff: NFS-Progs, TCPWrappers, Portmap

=== RiCo ===

* Webmin

=== Andy F ===

* <s>KOffice</s> (mailing list discussion has convinced me OOo is a better inclusion for the ISO, though I will still use KOffice as my primary)
** I sorta prefer KOffice myself :Peter
* any ftp daemon that goes with the [http://www.kde-apps.org/content/show.php?content=11918 FTPMonitor kicker applet] (my preference is Pure-FTPD). Also, the applet itself.
* any gui ftp client (e.g. Kasablanca)
* KNetLoad
* RenameUtils
I second Jonas's multimedia suggestions: XineLib, KMPlayer, libdvdcss, AmaroK, Audacious. Grip doesn't seem as much like a default inclusion in a KDE-centric distro with the audiocd:/ ioslave that will do ogg, flac and mp3 rips.
Also, please make sure every package shows up in the right spot in the KDE menu, or I would have no idea to look for (e.g.) "Kasablanca" as an ftp client.
** Grip is good for other window managers such as WindowMaker. Not all ppl want to use KDE, so at least one alternative to audiocd:/ should be included. <!--<!--/-->-->Jonas

=== Peter ===
* KNetworkManager (it's incredible--KWifiManager is pitiful in comparison)
* KGet
* Amarok, XineLib, libdvdcss, etc. 

=== Thorn ===
* IceWM window manager. Quite simple and fast.
* FTE text editor. NORMAL, windows-style editor, supports syntax highlight, folds (best variant), file browsing, calling commands, etc

== Kuartet Desktop ==

There is a new project developing a Mezzo style desktop based on KDE called Kuartet. Let's support other innovators as well.