A presumptive agenda for the 014 postmortem discussion

Saturday 5, 11am - US west coast (GMT-8)
Saturday 5, 5pm - Brazil (GMT-2)
Saturday 5, 8pm - Central Europe (GMT+1)
Sunday 6, 8am - New Zealand (GMT+13)

''For the ones interested, a log of the discussion can be found [http://www.midgard.liu.se/~n02jonka/gobolinux_20080105.html here] (thanks to Jonas Karlsson)''
===Development===
* Problems with our release process - individuals holding a token?  What can be distributed better?
* Interval between releases - is it an issue?
* Bugs missed - we already have known issues[[#014_Known_issues|<sup>1</sup>]] with 014. Due to insufficient testing or impossible to catch them all? Bad routines?
* Role of release manager - Developer? How many tails on the whip?
* When is a release stable? What can be changed on a "stable" candidate? Problem has been that we have been working on a candidate so long that packages become outdated.
* Roadmap - there hasn't been a clear roadmap for any releases, is it a problem?
* Package selection/update process - How to choose packages/versions to include in release.  How to communicate to release manager.

===Roadmap 015===
* Make Base/CD/1G Flash images for snapshots.  encourage greater testing.
* Grow release, starting with Base -> Desktop -> Apps


...If there's time<br/>
Presumptive items on the 015 roadmap:
* /System/Index
* System management - GUI
* Authentication and crypting data

====014 Known issues====
* xcb_xlib assert error due to old libxcb
* dbus doesn't have a system id
* no kmix, kde-multimedia needs to be InstallPackage'd
[[Category:IRC_Meetings]]