===  BetterMarketing ===

==  The problem ==

I was just browsing around, looking for a list of all linux distros. I ended up
at http://www.linuxiso.org/ and guess what - they don't know [[GoboLinux]].
Then I started to google for it and was a bit disappointed by the result...

While I think [[GoboLinux]] is far away from world domination for good reason, it might be a
good idea to create some nifty "I use [[GoboLinux]]" icons (I think Darth Pingus might
easily adopted) and create some adverts..
I mean this in a positive sense, just a nice text which explain the goals, ideas
and status of [[GoboLinux]], i.e. not something like "the best distro ever - download now!"
(This should be easy to compose of the introductory texts on the [[GoboLinux]] homepage. I'd do it myself, but I'm not a native speaker.)

A better [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Linux_distributions WikiPedia]
article springs to mind.  The [http://wiki.linuxquestions.org/wiki/GoboLinux LinuxQuestions.org] entry is also unsatisfactory.
For example, compare the situation to the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Debian Debian article on Wikipedia].

==  Why the effort ==
Well, more people means more packages? (The hope never dies...)
:There is something Gobolinux attempts which no other distribution attempts - redefine the file layout. The biggest advantage will be that everything appears more logical than the spread of the traditional layout. For this to work however both more people  and more work in regards to documenting Gobolinux is needed. Why? Easy. If one has a problem with Gobolinux, finding a solution is harder because Gobolinux does some things differently. What I'd like to see is improving the wiki a lot more. It's very nice so far, but imho it needs to be a lot nicer still.

==  List of possible promotion websites ==
* http://www.linux.org/dist/list.html (not up to date, Language German is missing)
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GoboLinux (stub)
* http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Comparison_of_Linux_distributions (not mentioned)
* http://wiki.linuxquestions.org/wiki/GoboLinux (stub)
* http://c2.com/cgi/wiki (has no [[GoboLinux]] article)
* http://www.linuxiso.org/ (no entry)
* http://distrowatch.com/table.php?distribution=gobo (looks good, though one might add a "read more" link? BTW. [[GoboLinux]] got a nice review there.)
* http://freshmeat.net/projects/gobolinux/ (description is very short and two years old)
* http://directory.google.com/Top/Computers/Software/Operating_Systems/Linux/Distributions/Live_CD/ (catalogue does not contain [[GoboLinux]])
* http://www.frozentech.com/content/livecd.php (voting site on [[LiveCd]] linuces: 0 votes for [[GoboLinux]] - but there doesn't seem to be much traffic.)
* http://www.linuxhq.com/dist.html ([[GoboLinux]] not mentioned)
* http://www.linuxlinks.com/Distributions/ ([[GoboLinux]] mentioned)

==  Discussion ==

{{Discussions}}