GoboLinux is flexible enough to offer you a choice of 
themes to control how your GoboLinux looks when
starting up. 

You can select a theme by setting ```BootTheme=<ThemeName>``` in /System/Settings/BootOptions.
Available themes include:

* '''CheckList''' - Shows tasks and others that depend on them, then checks them off.
* '''Hat''' - A Red-Hat look-alike: lots of colored [ OK ]s and [FAILED]s are echoed as things are initialized.
* '''Progress''', '''Progress-II''', or '''Progress-III''' - Fancy themes that stress your terminal with tons of escape codes.
* '''Quotes''' - Prints short random quotes to indicate success or failure of every initialized item.
* '''Slack''' - This theme is inspired by the feel of old-school Slackware boots: no distracting messages, no colors, no special effects.

Check /Programs/BootScripts/Current/Themes/ to see all the available themes.

You can use the TestBootTheme script to see how a boot theme looks like without actually rebooting your computer. TestBootTheme is described on section [[Testing a boot theme]].

You can also set the boot theme from GRUB by adding BootTheme=<ThemeName> to the boot line. This can be handy if BootOptions file specifies a broken or nonexistent theme, because GoboLinux will not boot without a valid one.

Physically, a GoboLinux boot theme is a single script file located in /Programs/[[BootScripts]]/''<version>''/Themes.

The theme file is loaded by the boot scripts core, and is called once for every runlevel change. Although interesting stuff can be done in the script body, a compliant boot script has only to implement the following functions:

* ThemeInit
* ThemeFile
* ThemeBefore
* ThemeAfter
* ThemeFinish

These functions are the hotspots that glue the theme and the boot scripts core together.

** [[Creating a boot theme]]
** [[Implementing a boot theme]]
** [[Testing a boot theme]]


__NOTOC__

