Here's my 2 cents to the project. I did a quick search on gmane to find out if there's anything there about Stu's venture. This bit jumped to my attention:

<cite>Gnome (as of 2.4) has a couple of "shared" folders in "lib".  Don't ask
me why.  I found this out the hard way while compiling Gnome 2.4 a
while back.  Particularly, I  remember that lib/bonobo is important,
though I know there are others (just can't remember the names).</cite>

A [http://www.google.ca/search?hl=en&ie=UTF-8&q=lib+bonobo&meta= search for "lib bonobo" on Google] returned this as the second hit:

http://developer.gnome.org/doc/API/2.0/bonobo-activation/configuring.html 

It talks about BONOBO_ACTIVATION_PATH and GNOME2_PATH variables. AFAICT earlier attempts on compiling GNOME did not use these variables. I believe they shine a new light on the feasibility of this project.

-- [[hisham]]

I could compile GNOME 2.6 without both these variables. I have all recipes at hand which are being polished before uploading for another ''plea for help''. The main problems I had with GNOME 2.6 were:

* Themes: Neither Metacity themes worked nor any GNOME related themes. Although Metacity Theme Previewer (or whatever it is called) worked fine.

* Keyboard settings seemed to be broken. I fixed it by "reg-editing" GConf keys.

* Most applets did not work.

* Several Recipes needed to disable sandbox since all aplications tried to write files to GConf tree.

I'm currently (that is ''right now''), trying to override GCONF_SCHEMA_CONFIG_SOURCE which is the variable that configures tests before executing `gconftool-2  --get-default-source`. It is this application that returns the offending path, despite GConf's configuration file. It seems to be the way Slackware does.

-- [[RafaelJeffman]]

I think these variables should be used in runtime, rather than during compilation. Perhaps they'll help GNOME find the missing files that are breaking whatever is broken now (just a wild guess).

-- [[hisham]]