Searches, chooses an occurence and prints where some package (or recipe) can be found, based only on the program name (case insesitive) or on the program name and program version.

== Options: ==

* '''-t''' ''[<type>, <type>,...]'', '''--types='''''[<type>, <type>,...]'' - Sets what kind of packages can be searched, in the passed order. Valid types are: local_package, official_package, contrib_package, recipe, tracked, all. Using only the first character from any of the above is also valid: l, o, c, r, t, a. Default types are: local_package, official_package. Notice that when "recipe" type is used, Compile.conf is read to set recipe-store locations and local recipes locations.
* '''--local-dirs='''''[<dir>,..]'' - Where to look for local binary packages. By default, uses the paths defined at [[GetAvailable.conf]].
* '''--force-update''' - Downloads required packages list even if there is a local copy (cached in /.Settings/cache/) newer than one hour.
* '''-l, --full-list''' - Prints all the occurences that match the passed parameters, not only the "best".
* '''-s, --substring''' - Match packages whose names contains the passed substring. Automatically enables '--full-list'.
* '''-W, --no-web''' - Do not try to download anything and don't list remote recipes and packages (if not explicitly listed in '--types='). Overrides '--force-update'.

Examples of usage:
<blockquote>
FindPackage kde <br/>
FindPackage kde 3.2.3 <br/>
FindPackage KDE 3.2.3 <br/>
FindPackage --types=recipe kde 3.2.3 <br/>
FindPackage --types=local_package,official_package kde 3.2.3 <br/>
FindPackage -t l,o kde 3.2.3 <br/>
FindPackage --full-list kde 3.2.3 <br/>
FindPackage --force-update --full-list kde 3.2.3 <br/>
FindPackage --types=recipe kde-base 3.2.3 <br/>
FindPackage --types=recipe --substring kd 3.2.3 <br/>
</blockquote>

== Configuration files ==
FindPackage uses a single file, namely ''/Programs/Scripts/Settings/FindPackage.conf'', to know which types of packages
it has to look for. The syntax for types is the same as found in the options section.

Example:
<blockquote>
defaultRepositories=( <br/>
   local_package <br/>
   official_package <br/>
   contrib_package <br/>
   recipe <br/>
) <br/>
</blockquote>

{{Scripts}}
