{{ToC}}
Checks for updated [[GoboLinux]] recipes and packages

Usage: Freshen [ <opts> ] [ <list> ]

Options:
* '''--binaries, -b''' - Include binary packages '''[default]'''
* '''--cache-only, -c''' - Update caches only
* '''--debug''' - Enable debug mode
* '''--downgrades, -d''' - Include downgrades
* '''--empty-tree, -e''' - Behave as though the installed program tree were empty - include dependencies all the way back
* '''--excluding, -x''' - Do not include ''list'' or anything with a dependency in it
* '''--help, -h''' - Display this help
* '''--info, -i''' - Get information on <program>
* '''--limit, -l <n>''' - Include no more than ''n'' updates
* '''--lower-limit, -L <n>''' - Skip the first ''n'' updates
* '''--no-binaries, -B''' - Do not include binary packages
* '''--no-cache, -C''' - Do not use cached data for /Programs
* '''--no-downgrades, -D''' - Do not include downgrades. '''[default]'''
* '''--no-recipes, -R''' - Do not include recipes
* '''--no-upgrades, -N''' - Do not include upgrades
* '''--recipes, -r''' - Include recipes '''[default]'''
* '''--shallow, -s''' - Shallow mode: don't include any upgrades that aren't strictly necessary. Requires ''list''
* '''--upgrade-system, -U''' - Upgrade all programs, or ''list'' and dependencies if specified.
* '''--upgrades, -n''' - Include upgrades '''[default]'''
* '''--verbose, -V''' - Enable verbose mode
* '''--version, -v''' - Show program version

Common options are:
* '''-U''' for system updates
* '''-l <n>''' to limit the number of updates to a few at a time
* '''-s''' to limit the updates to those strictly necessary
* '''-R''' to skip recipes and perform no compilation
* '''-i <program>''' to get information on <program>

Freshen outputs its update lists in the form:
<blockquote>
[IUX] Foo 2.0                    1.0 <br/>
</blockquote>
Meaning an upgrade to Foo version 2.0, from 1.0, which is available as both a recipe and a package.

The mnemonics mean:
* I - Installed
* U - Upgrade
* D - Downgrade (color code: red)
* R - Recipe available (color code: green)
* B - Binary available (color code: yellow/brown)
* X - Recipe and binary available (color code: blue)

Examples:

<blockquote>
Freshen <br/>
</blockquote>
Produce an ordered list of everything that can be updated on the system.
<blockquote>
Freshen -R <br/>
</blockquote>
Produce an ordered list of everything that can be updated on the system using only binary packages.
<blockquote>
Freshen -U -l 5 <br/>
</blockquote>
Update the first five programs on the list.
<blockquote>
Freshen -U Firefox <br/>
</blockquote>
Update Firefox and its dependencies
<blockquote>
Freshen -U -x Qt <br/>
</blockquote>
Update everything except Qt and anything that depends upon it.
<blockquote>
Freshen -s Firefox Kopete <br/>
</blockquote>
Ordered list of upgrades '''needed''' in order to upgrade Firefox and Kopete to their newest releases. Add '''-U''' to perform the upgrade.
