== Getting the Source ==
Source archives may be downloaded from static urls or from various version control systems.
In the case of a static url, a size and md5sum should be included for verification.
The following Recipe options control this phase.  All these options are valid for all [[#Recipe types|recipe modes]].
=== Static URLs ===
==== url=&lt;url&gt; ====
Note: For Sourceforge URLs, use the variable $httpSourceforge, as in
 url=$httpSourceforge/&lt;project name&gt;/&lt;filename&gt;
e.g.
 url=$httpSourceforge/xmule/xmule-1.8.2.tar.bz2
Similarly, use $ftpGnu, and $ftpAlphaGnu, for downloads from GNU's ftp servers.

==== urls=(&lt;array of urls&gt;) ====
If the Program has multiple source packages, you may specify a list of them.
If a partial file exists, resumption is
attempted. FTP transfers are always performed in passive mode.

==== mirror_url=&lt;url&gt; ====
==== mirror_urls=(&lt;array of urls&gt;) ====
URLs to be used, in case the URLs listed in '''url'''/'''urls''' fail.
Multiple mirrors may be specified. For sets of URLs, each mirror
needs to specify the same number of URLs.

Example:
 urls=(
    "http://www.main-site.org/file1"
    "http://www.main-site.org/file2"
 )
 mirror_urls=(
    "http://www.mirror1.org/file1"
    "http://www.mirror1.org/file2"
    "http://www.mirror2.org/file1"
    "http://www.mirror2.org/file2"
 )

==== file=&lt;filename&gt; ====
==== files=(&lt;array of filenames&gt;) ====
The name of the package file containing the program's sources.
If not specified, it is assumed to be the same as the final part
of the URL, after the last slash.
If "urls" is used instead of "url", "files" is expected to
contain the same number of entries as "urls". All of them are
unpacked relative to the same directory by default.  To change this
behaviour see [[#unpack_files|unpack_files]] below.

==== file_size=&lt;size&gt; ====
==== file_sizes=(&lt;array of sizes&gt;) ====
This is the file size(s), in bytes, of the packed archive(s) (e.g. foo.tar.gz)
as reported by "ls -l".
 user@gobo /Files/Compile/Archives]ls -l gettext-0.16.1.tar.gz
 -rw-r--r-- 1 root root '''8539634''' Jul 11 01:08 gettext-0.16.1.tar.gz

==== file_md5=&lt;md5sum&gt; ====
==== file_md5s=(&lt;array of md5sums&gt;) ====
This value contains the [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MD5 MD5Sum] of the package file defined by the &lt;code&gt;file&lt;/code&gt; value. You can find this MD5Sum by using the &lt;code&gt;md5sum&lt;/code&gt; command.

 user@gobo /Files/Compile/Archives]md5sum gettext-0.16.1.tar.gz
 '''3d9ad24301c6d6b17ec30704a13fe127'''  gettext-0.16.1.tar.gz

=== Version Control Systems ===
==== cvs=&lt;CVS server&gt; ====
==== cvss=(&lt;array of CVS servers&gt;) ====
Specify the CVS server and repository to be used. Note that
'''cvs''', '''svn''' and '''url''' are mutually exclusive, since you should be either
fetching from SCM or getting a tarball.

Example:
 cvs=:pserver:anonymous:@anoncvs.gimp.org:/cvs/gnome

==== cvs_module=&lt;module name to checkout&gt; ====
==== cvs_modules=(&lt;array of module names to checkout&gt;) ====
CVS module to be checked out.

Example:
 cvs_module=gimp

==== cvs_opts=&lt;string added to cvs operation&gt; ====
==== cvs_options=&lt;string added to cvs operation&gt; ====
Some server configurations require additional options to be
passed to the cvs command. You shouldn't normally
need this command, but it is available in case the documentation
of the project you're checking out instructs you to give special
options to cvs.

cvs_options is a synonym to cvs_opts.

==== cvs_password=&lt;password&gt; ====
Password to log into the cvs server.

==== cvs_checkout_options=&lt;string added to cvs checkout operation&gt; ====
Some configurations require additional options to be passed
specifically to the cvs checkout command, such as for getting
a snapshot from a specific date. Normally, you shouldn't need this command.

==== cvs_rsh=&lt;string&gt; ====
Specify a value for the CVS_RSH variable (see cvs documentation
for details). If unset, "ssh" is used by default.

==== svn=&lt;SVN server&gt; ====
==== svns=(&lt;array of SVN servers&gt;) ====
Specify the Subversion server and repository to be used. Note that
'''cvs''', '''svn''' and '''url''' are mutually exclusive, since you should be either
fetching from a SCM or getting a tarball.

Example:
 svn=http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/httpd/httpd/branches/2.2.x

==== bzr=&lt;bazaar server&gt; ====
==== bzrs=(&lt;array of bazaar servers&gt;) ====

==== git=&lt;git server&gt; ====
==== gits=(&lt;array of git servers&gt;) ====
==== hg=&lt;mercurial server&gt; ====
==== hgs=(&lt;array of mercurial servers&gt;) ====
Similarly, specify an URL for checkout from a Bazaar, Git, or Mercurial server, respectively.
