
==  Package management ==

=== Finding ===
* [[UpdateRecipes]] - Update local copy of recipe store
* [[GetAvailable]]   - Search for GoboLinux recipes and precompiled packages
* [[FindPackage]] - Search for packages and recipes, locally or remotely.
* [[SuggestUpdates]] - List packages with an update available.
* [[SuggestDuplicates]] - Provide a list of programs that are not linked to Current
* [[PrioritiseUpdates]] - Order output of [[SuggestUpdates]] by dependency
* [[Dependencies]] - Queries dependencies in a GoboLinux package.
* [[AllDependencies]] - Show the entire dependency hierarchy for a package.

=== Installing ===
* [[Compile]] - Compile and install software from sources using GoboLinux recipe.
* [[InstallPackage]] - Install precompiled GoboLinux packages.
* [[FetchArchive]] - Download the sources for a recipe, but don't compile them.
* [[Freshen]] - Many options to check for availability and upgrade GoboLinux packages

=== Administration ===
* [[SymlinkProgram]] - Link a program from the /Programs hierarchy in the /System tree.
* [[DisableProgram]] - Unlink a program from the /System/Index hierarchy.
* [[RemoveProgram]] - Remove a program version from the system.
* [[DetachProgram]] - Move a program from /Programs to a different location.
* [[RebuildLinks]] - Rebuild /System/Index directories.
* [[RemoveBroken]] - Remove broken links.

===  Creating recipes and packages ===

* [[GetRecipe]] - Fetch a recipe and insert it in the recipes tree.
* [[MakeRecipe]] - Create a recipe template.
* [[EditRecipe]] - Edit a recipe.
* [[PackRecipe]] (formerly [[GenRecipeStore]]) - Generate "packed recipes", ready for submission.
* [[CreatePackage]] - Make a GoboLinux package.
* [[NewVersion]] - Update a recipe to a new version.
* [[PrepareProgram]] - Prepares applications for instalation, running the 'configure'
* [[KeyManager]] - Manage digital signature keys for GoboLinux packages.
* [[Hashes]] - Manages [[FileHash]] and [[FileHash.sig]] in a GoboLinux package.
* [[MergeTree]] - Mirrors one directory structure into another.

===  Helper tools ===

* [[DeduceName]] - Scan a file to find the capitalization of a program name.
* [[FiboSandbox]] - Run the program in a protected sandbox, as a restricted user.
* [[FixInfo]] - Remakes the entries in the info 'dir' file.
* [[FixLibtoolLa]] - Convert a .la file created by libtool to make it GoboLinux-compliant.
* [[NamingConventions]] - Heuristics to determine a capitalized, GoboLinux-like name.
* [[SandboxInstall]] - Runs 'make install', using a sandbox environment.

==  Kernel management ==

* [[CleanModules]] - Clean up all kernel modules that can be removed.
* [[CreateInitRD]]

==  System maintenance ==

* [[AddUser]] - Register a new user in this system.
* [[EditScript]] - Create or edit a GoboLinux script.
* [[SystemFind]] - Special 'find' utility for searches in the /System hierarchy.
* [[SystemInfo]] - Display some basic system information. Useful for /etc/issue.

==  Utilities ==

* [[FilterColors]] - Filter to monochrome.
* [[FilterLines]]
* [[FixAttributes]] - Fix attributes from files based on its contents.
* [[GrepReplace]] - Swaps occurrences of a regex for another word in a series of files.
* [[IsExecutable]] - Determines if a file is executable.
* [[RemoveEmpty]] - Remove all empty directories inside current (or a given) directory.
* [[RenameCaps]] - Rename files, capitalizing them.

==  Wrappers ==

* [[FindQuick]] (alias: f) - Find files.
* [[GrepQuick]] (alias: g) - Shorthand for 'grep'.
* [[List]] (alias: l) - A fancy front-end for 'ls'.
* [[KillProcess]] - Enhanced process killing utility.
* [[Rename]] - Performs a sed-based search/replace in a set of filenames.

==  Boot scripts ==

* [[BootDriver]] - The boot controller script.
* [[StartTask]] - Run a boot task from the command line.
* [[StopTask]] - Stop a boot task from the command line.
* [[TestBootTheme]]

==  Special files ==

* [[GoboPath]]
* [[ScriptFunctions]]
* [[TemplateScript]]

{{Reference}}
