{{Handbook Navigation}}

Most part of hardware configuration is currently managed by Udev. Together with Module-Init-Tools, Udev gets information emitted by the kernel and loads the associated module for each device it's told about.

This section of the documentation explains how to configure your system to fine tune these automatic detections, pass extra parameters to your modules and have some of them blacklisted.

The following sub-sections are available:

== Video cards ==

Video cards are automatically detected during GoboLinux installation. Xorg makes use of the most optimized driver available for your card, but that doesn't include proprietary drivers.

If you own an NVIDIA card, you might want to take a look at the [[Afterboot]] page. There's a section about installing the proprietary NVIDIA drivers there.

== Printers ==

GoboLinux comes with CUPS installed by default.

== Audio ==

Note that ALSA is muted by default, to automatically save and restore changes done in e.g. alsamixer, add these lines to your boot scripts.

* Init: <pre>Exec "Restoring ALSA settings..."     alsactl restore</pre>
* Done: <pre>Exec "Storing ALSA settings..."       alsactl store</pre>

If your soundcard does not support hardware mixing of multiple streams, you can use ALSA's software mixer, dmix. Configure your $HOME/.asoundrc like this:

 pcm.!default {
    type plug
    slave.pcm "dmixer"
 }
 
 pcm.dsp {
    type plug
    slave.pcm "dmixer"
 }
 
 pcm.dmixer  {
    type dmix
    ipc_key 1024
    slave {
       pcm "hw:0,0"
       period_time 0
       period_size 2048
       buffer_size 8192
       rate 44100
    }
    bindings {
       0 0
       1 1
    }
 }
 
 ctl.dmixer {
    type hw
    card 0
 }