This applies to vmware Workstation v4.5.2 and GoboLinux 011

This is a work in progress by [[Sy]]

* Install vmware -- default settings
* Create a new virtual machine (vm) for GoboLinux -- use an IDE virtual drive, not a SCSI one.  SCSI will boot the livecd, but a GoboLinux installation with that setting will not boot.  Assistance in getting vmware/scsi running gobo would be appreciated.
** Both "Other Linux 2.4 kernel" and "Other Linux 2.6 kernel" (liveCD and booting an installation with framebuffer 2.6) appear to run fine
* Pop the GoboLinux CD in, and start up the GoboLinux vm.
* When prompted for hardware selection, choose 2:  "bypass only x11 hardware detection".
* cfdisk -- figure out your partitions
* mkfs for ext2 or mke2fs -j for an ext3 partition
* mkswap for a swap partition
* startx and then the graphical installer

----

* reboot

* edit the grub boot line to point it towards root=/dev/hda1 (as appropriate)
* TODO: add edit instructions before rebooting (mount, edit a file, reinstall grub?)
* I'm stuck here.. rebooting does not find a valid partition.  Probably because of vmware reverting back to an unformatted snapshot when I rebooted.  Whoops.  =)

--

* dhcpcd -L /tmp/dhcpcd
* nano /System/Settings/BootScripts/Options
* uncomment the two gateway lines:
** GatewayInterface=eth0
** Gateway=192.168.1.1
* StopTask Network
* StartTask Network

----

Hrm.. I still can't surf from the liveboot cd nor an install.. I can't remember what I did last time to resolve these issues.  Ugh. -- [[Sy]]

I manually entered my DNS servers into the installer -- 24.153.22.67 / 24.156.22.66 -- [[Sy]]
----
I have installed Gobolinux 012 under VMware Workstation 5.0. This part is  edited under Gobolinux hosted in a VM. Here is the little things I have noted so far:
- GBL 012 ships a kernel 2.6 by default, so one can safely create a "Other 2.6 kernel" vmware.
- Select "Nat" as the network mode. The network configuration of the network once Gobolinux is installed is easy. Edit /System/Settings/[[BootOptions]]. In the NetworkInterfacesOnBoot, add eth0. At the end of the file, add the following line:
eth0_BootProto=DHCP
- I confirm that the VM has to use an IDE virtual drive, not a SCSI one. SCSI installation does not work for me (I've not dig the problem though).
- For the installation, follow Sy instruction above (cfdisk/mkfs.ext2 or mkfs.ext3/mkswap/...).
- Install VMWare tools. Go in VMWare workstation VM->Install VMWare Tools
- I still need to find out how to raise the screen configuration. I can't have more than 1024x768 untill now even after installation of the VMWare tools.
[Greg]

----
If anyone could tell me how to install vmware tools in gobolinux i would have no problem with writing a full article about installing gobolinux in a VM with gobolinux v13 & vmware 6
gobovm@tschanness.de
sC

[[Category:Howtos]]
__NOTOC__

