KillProcess is a wrapper that functions as an enhanced 'kill' utility. It can kill by resource usage (the process that's consuming the greatest amount of memory or CPU usage) and by name.

Usage: '''KillProcess''' { -c | -m | [-n] <regexps...> }

Options:
* '''-h, --help''' - Shows this help.
* '''-v, --version''' - Show program version.
* '''-V, --verbose''' - Enable verbose mode.
* '''-i, --interactive''' - Ask for confirmation before killing a process.
* '''-d, --display''' - Informative output only. Do not actually kill any process.
* '''-n, --name''' - Kill processes by name. This is similar to killall, but names are matched to regular expressions passed as additional parameters to [[KillProcess]]. This is the default behavior if no other mode switches are passed.
* '''-m, --memory''' - Kill the process that is consuming the greatest amount of memory.
* '''-c, --cpu''' - Kill the process with the highest CPU usage level.
* '''-s, --spare''' ''<entry>[:<entry>...]'' - Enter a colon-separated list of program names that should not be killed by automatic kills. Entries for this list can also be added in the killProcessSpare entry in the configuration file.

Be mindful that when matching processes by name, you are actually searching for a match in any part of the entire process command line. This is useful when the process name (as interpreted by killall) is changed to a generic name (such as kdeinit). There are some caveats, however. For example, entering 'ion' as a pattern would also match 'evolution'. Furthermore, even parameters may match: a search for 'lpd' would also kill 'kwrite helpdocument.txt'.

Examples:
 KillProcess knotify artsd kwrited

{{Scripts}}