Roles involved with the [[GoboLinux]] project.  The hope is to provide greater visibility into the project and recruit volunteers.

=General Roles=
==[[LiveCD]] Release Manager==
* 012: André Detsch
* 013: André Detsch
* 014: Lucas C. Villa Real

Currently only the latest release is supported, although the mailing list will likely try to be helpful for older releases.

==BugMaster==
Collects bug reports from mailing lists and forums.  Enters into bug tracking.  Monitors status in bug tracking.
* No one in particular. Bugs submitted to the list are requested to be filed in the bug tracker by the user.
* Bugs submitted to the bug tracker are assigned to different developers, depending on the applications involved.
* By default, both user and assigned developer listen for events in the bug entry (emails are automatically sent to both).

<!--
DocMaster - Keeps an eye at the wiki looking for outdated stuff. Packs a /Depot/Docs when a new release is being prepared.

(Replaced by WikiTeam model?
-->
==Translation Leads==
* Chinese (zh_CN):  Meng Kezhi
* French (fr_FR): Marc Falzon, Thibault Huguet
* German (de_DE): Harald Schreiber, Roebe Kunz, Volker Wieban
* Hungarian (hu_HU): Viola Zoltán
* Portuguese (pt_BR): Lucas C. Villa Real, Hisham H. Muhammad, André Detsch.
* Russian (ru_RU): Sergei Zhuravlev, Oleg Puchinin
* Spanish (es_ES): Aitor Pérez Iturri
* Swedish (sv_SE): Jonas Karlsson
* Norwegian Bokmål (nb_NO): Henrik Hodne

==Recipe-Store Maintainer==
* Lucas C. Villa Real, André Detsch

==Package-Store Maintainer==
* Lucas C. Villa Real, André Detsch

==List Master==
Facilitates list discussion.  Creates list FAQs
* Carlo J. Calica <ccalica<''At''>gmail''d.t''com> 

==List Admins==
* gobolinux-arm: Lucas C. Villa Real
* gobolinux-br: Lucas C. Villa Real
* gobolinux-commits: Hisham H. Muhammad
* gobolinux-devel: Lucas C. Villa Real
* gobolinux-recipes: Lucas C. Villa Real
* gobolinux-recipes-commits: Lucas C. Villa Real
* gobolinux-users: Michael Homer

==WebMasters==
* Hisham H. Muhammad, Lucas C. Villa Real

==Web Admins==
* Hisham H. Muhammad, Lucas C. Villa Real

==Mirror Admins==
* [http://gobo.calica.com gobo.calica.com] - Carlo J. Calica
* [http://gobo.kundor.org gobo.kundor.org] - [[User:Kundor|Nick Matteo]]
* [http://bacautux.no-ip.org/gobolinux/]   - User Chisu Vasile Marius ROMANIA please leave this link and add to your mirror list

=Tool Developers=
==Scripts==
* Lead -
* Cross-compilation subsystem - Lucas Correia Villa Real
==Compile==
* Lead - Hisham Muhammad
* Cross-compilation subsystem - Lucas Correia Villa Real
==Manager==
* Lead - André Detsch
==BootScripts==
* Lead - 
==Installer==
* Lead - André Detsch
* Qt [[AbsTK]] subsystem - André Detsch
* Curses [[AbsTK]] subsystem - Hisham Muhammad
==ConfigTools==
* Lead - Lucas C. Villa Real, André Detsch
==GoboHide==
* Lead - Lucas Correia Villa Real

=Recipe/Package Maintainers=
Sign up to be a recipe maintainer here, until a better system is developed.
{{Todo | Develop better mechanism for recruiting and tracking recipe maintainers | priority = low }}
==Base Packages==
{| class="nice"
!Package!!Maintainer
|-
|Autoconf ||
|-
|Automake ||
|-
|Atool ||
|-
|BC ||
|-
|Bash ||
|-
|Bin86 ||
|-
|BinUtils ||
|-
|Bison ||
|-
|BootScripts ||
|-
|Bzip2 ||
|-
|CoreUtils ||
|-
|Cpio ||
|-
|DiffUtils ||
|-
|DHCPCD ||
|-
|E2FSProgs ||
|-
|Ed ||
|-
|File ||
|-
|FindUtils ||
|-
|Flex ||
|-
|GCC ||
|-
|GLib ||
|-
|GPM ||
|-
|Gawk ||
|-
|Gettext ||
|-
|Glibc ||
|-
|GoboHide ||
|-
|Grep ||
|-
|Groff ||
|-
|Grub ||
|-
|Gzip ||
|-
|Hdparm ||
|-
|InetUtils ||
|-
|KBD ||
|-
|Less ||
|-
|LibTool ||
|-
|Linux || Lucas C. Villa Real
|-
|M4 ||
|-
|MC ||
|-
|Make ||
|-
|Man ||
|-
|Man-Pages ||
|-
|MkTemp ||
|-
|Module-Init-Tools ||
|-
|Mtail ||
|-
|Nano ||
|-
|Nasm ||
|-
|Ncurses ||
|-
|Net-Tools ||
|-
|Netkit-Base ||
|-
|OpenSSL ||
|-
|Patch ||
|-
|Perl ||
|-
|Pinfo ||
|-
|Procinfo ||
|-
|Procps ||
|-
|Psmisc ||
|-
|PCIUtils ||
|-
|Python ||
|-
|Readline ||
|-
|ReiserFSProgs ||
|-
|Runit ||
|-
|Sash ||
|-
|Scripts ||
|-
|Sed ||
|-
|Shadow ||
|-
|Strace || Lucas C. Villa Real
|-
|Sudo ||
|-
|Sysklogd ||
|-
|Sysvinit ||
|-
|Tar ||
|-
|Texinfo ||
|-
|Udev || Lucas C. Villa Real
|-
|Util-Linux ||
|-
|Wget ||
|-
|XFS-Utils ||
|-
|ZLib ||
|-
|ZSH ||

|}
==Other Packages==
*AbiWord - Koen Weddepohl

{{Todo | Document and use best practice to obsfucate email addresses | priority = medium}}

{{Community}}