I'm finally running Gnome on my machine. But it has some quirks so I'm asking your help.

The first thing, and that most annoys me, there is a bug in Gnome's Control-Center that handles keyboard settings as float and not ints, as expected by GConf. It is a known bug ([http://bugzilla.gnome.org/show_bug.cgi?id=132154 bug 132154]) for the Gnome developers and seem to be open in the latest release of Control-Center (2.7.1). It affects usage in two ways, by doubling the key typed or by disabling keyboard repeat.

A workaround for this bug is by manually setting the keyboard values by hand with:

<pre>
gconftool-2 -t int -s /desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard/delay 500
gconftool-2 -t int -s /desktop/gnome/peripherals/keyboard/rate 20
</pre>

Also, I've made a mistake during the first stages of compilation and many Gconf files (''%gconf'') where not ''user readable'', which causes lots of trouble. The reason seemed to be the gconf settings directories being created with the wrong permissions (0700 instead of 0755). I hope to have fixed it, but I did not tested most of the ''fixed recipes''. The recipes created after this error was found worked well.

I'm having some problems with themes and engines used to render then. I believe it is something trivial (like a missing environment variable, or something like that), but I haven't ''tweaked'' GTK2 configuration and I'm not sure on what to do. Icons and Window borders are working fine, and as GTK2 widgets are much better than GTK+ ones, it is not much of an issue for now.

I've noticed several ''parsing errors'' on schema and xml files during installation of most (if not all) packages. It seem to happen because I don't have intltool installed. I've tested Gnome only with languages "en" and "pt_BR". Both seem to work fine, but do it yourself, don't trust my words  on this.

I've compiled Gnome as several packages, but made a GNOME meta-recipe if someone prefer to install everything under the same tree. As they need more testing they will be available from  http://gobolinux.org/~rafasgj/gobo/store/gnome . As I'm finishing the tests right now, the recipes won't be available before September 11.

Seems I'll really go to heaven...