Recipes are directions to [[Compile]] on how to configure, make, and install a particular program.
The term "Recipe" can refer to either
* A packed tarball, as held in the recipe-store on gobolinux.org.  These are named as
''Foo--1.0-r1--recipe.tar.bz2''.
* The file Foo/1.0-r1/Recipe in such a tarball.

== File Layout ==
A packed recipe is a tarball such as Program--Version-r1--recipe.tar.bz2.
It contains a directory structure
* '''Program/'''
** '''Version-r1/'''
*** '''Recipe''' - the primary file.
*** '''[[Recipe format specification#Patches|Patches]]''', optionally.
*** '''[[Recipe format specification#Resources Files|Resources/]]'''
**** '''Dependencies'''
**** '''Description'''
**** '''Defaults/''' (optionally)
***** '''Settings/'''
***** '''Variable/'''
**** '''[[Boot script tasks|Tasks/]]''' (optionally)
**** '''Wrappers/''' (optionally)
**** '''BuildDependencies''', '''BuildInformation''', '''Environment''', '''[[Hints File|Hints]]''', '''PostInstall''', '''Requirements''', optionally.
*** '''Architecture''' subdirectories, such as '''arm/''', '''cell/''', '''i686/''', '''ppc/''', '''sh4/''', or '''x86_64/''', optionally.

== See ==
* [[Writing Recipes]]
* [[Recipe Format Specification]]
* [[Binary recipes]]
* [[How to Commit Recipes]]
* Scripts:
** [[NewVersion]] - Updates an existing recipe to a new version.
** [[MakeRecipe]] - Creates a recipe template from URL.
** [[EditRecipe]] - Edits an existing recipe.
** [[RecipeLint]] - Makes sure a recipe has no obvious errors.
** [[GetRecipe]] - Fetches a recipe and insert it in your system's Recipes tree.
** [[UpdateRecipes]] - Updates the local recipe list from recipe stores.
** [[PackRecipe]] - Generates a packed recipe tarball from a local Recipe directory, ready for submission.
** [[ContributeRecipe]] - submits the recipe for approval and inclusion in the recipe-store.
* The online Recipe Browser at [http://recipes.gobolinux.org/ recipes.gobolinux.org].
* The Recipes mailing list at http://lists.gobolinux.org/mailman/listinfo/gobolinux-recipes.