In GoboLinux, all programs, whether binary packages 
or user-compiled software is installed in a single directory
under /Programs, for example:

	/Programs/Gimp/2.8.18

Removing it can be as simple as:

	rm -rf Gimp/2.8.18 

But since this leaves behind dangling symlinks, GoboLinux
offers the [[RemoveProgram]] utility, which removes the
program and all links pointing to its files in
/System/Index.

	RemoveProgram Gimp 2.8.18

Sometimes you may want to "turn off" a program temporarily,
without erasing it from your hard disk.  In other words, you
want to remove program's executables from the execution
path, and remove libraries and headers from the lookup path.
In GoboLinux, this can be accomplished by removing the
associated symlinks for /System/Index

	DisableProgram gimp 2.1.18

The version parameter is optional. If it is
not provided, the "Current" link is used to determine
the program version to disable.  Also note that the
program name is case insensitive. 

To re-enable the program, all you need to do is recreate the
symbolic links:

	SymlinkProgram gimp 2.1.18

== Maintaining symlinks ==

GoboLinux has a script called [[RemoveBroken]]. 
that removes dangling symlinks from /System/Index tree.
It can be useful to run after manipulating directories
under /Programs. 

[[RemoveBroken]] takes a list of files, and removes those
that are dangling symlinks. If no arguments are provided,
the script takes filenames from standard input (typically
through a pipe).

The usual procedure to clean up dangling links, is

	cd /System/Index
	find | RemoveBroken
