As part of the application process, here we answer the questions posed for Google's Summer of Code.

   * 1.  Describe your organization.

[http://gobolinux.org GoboLinux] is a free software project which brings a [http://gobolinux.org/?page=at_a_glance unique organization] for the GNU/Linux file system hierarchy. The project started in 2002 as a Brazilian regional project, becoming an international community in a few months. Doing a lot of applied research, the development team aims to have a comprehensive set of ideas and tools that could be used as the foundation for a strong *NIX-based operating system.

   * 2. Why is your organization applying to participate in GSoC 2009? What do you hope to gain by participating?

The distribution grew up very fast in the past few years, and with many people thinking out of the box it's natural to have a few interesting projects in the to do list. This year the project collected some of the most promising ones and elected them as candidates to GSoC 2009, in the hope of bringing more talented developers to the team and helping the community as a whole with a new set of useful applications.

   * 3. Did your organization participate in past GSoCs? If so, please summarize your involvement and the successes and challenges of your participation.

No.

   * 4. If your organization has not previously participated in GSoC, have you applied in the past? If so, for what year(s)?

This is the first time we have applied.

   * 5. What license(s) does your project use?

The GNU General Public License.

   * 6. What is the URL for your ideas page?

[http://gobo.kundor.org/wiki/Summer_of_Code_project_ideas]

   * 7. What is the main development mailing list or forum for your organization?

The development mailing list is hosted at [http://lists.gobolinux.org/mailman/listinfo/gobolinux-devel], with our knowledge base at [http://gobo.kundor.org/wiki/]. More community resources can be seen at [http://gobolinux.org/?page=community]. 

   * 8. What is the main IRC channel for your organization?

Developers and users meet together in irc.freenode.net at #gobolinux

   * 9. Does your organization have an application template you would like to see students use? If so, please provide it now.

The entries seen at the [http://gobo.kundor.org/wiki/index.php?title=Summer_of_Code_project_ideas ideas page] can be used as template to applications suggested by students. Also, we'd like to ask students for their name, email and their experience with the subject they're applying to.

   * 10. Who will be your backup organization administrator? Please include Google Account information.

Michael Homer. Account information will be provided in the submission.

   * 11. Who will your mentors be? Please include Google Account information.

Lucas C. Villa Real, Michael Homer, Jonas Karlsson, Hisham H. Muhammad and André Detsch. Account information will be provided in the submission.

   * 12. What criteria did you use to select these individuals as mentors? Please be as specific as possible.

These are the creators of the project and the developers that are pushing the project most. All the mentors are involved in the core of the distribution and have a very good understanding of the proposals made.

   * 13. What is your plan for dealing with disappearing students?

The first step is to keep in touch with the students all the time so that they don't disappear. We have a lot of interest in guiding students so that they feel comfortable and excited about our project, and we surely want to see them improving their skills. We'll set short milestones, offering all of our support, so that students can see their progress and see the importance they're achieving within our community.

   * 14. What is your plan for dealing with disappearing mentors?

We have some backup mentors to deal with that event, including the project's release manager, who has a great experience coordinating large groups of people and has extensive knowledge in the GoboLinux internals. He's prepared to assume this position if that shows to be necessary, as well as the others, who'll stay aware of the progress made by the students mentored this summer.

   * 15. What steps will you take to encourage students to interact with your project's community before, during and after the program?

The short milestones, commits and public announcements will certainly help to keep students involved with the project's community all the time. Since there's a good integration between the suggested applications and many other GoboLinux scripts, students will also have a good understanding of all the process and very likely will become a part of our team after the program finishes. And our community is thankfully very integrated and friendly, so that's one more reason for students to stay connected with us later on!

   * 16. What will you do to ensure that your accepted students stick with the project after GSoC concludes?

After seeing their performance, having integrated with the team and leading the development of the tools they developed we'll pretty sure they'll have liked the taste and will keep helping us improve the project as a whole.