This is historical.
For work to do on the wiki, see [[Wiki:Todos]].

== Post-012 to-do list ==

=== First ===
* Check pending items from the lists below

=== Bugs ===
* Fix issues from [[Reports on 012]]


== Past-011 to-do list ==

* [[Bug tracking]]
* http://gobolinux.org/index.php?page=known_issues_011
* [[Ideas]]

=== Bugs ===
* Correct comment about DHCP in Network script and make it ignore the "none" option.
* Make sure sound is enabled for all users by default (chmod 666)

=== Features ===
* New color setup on grub, for better contrast

== Immediate to-do list for 011 ==

=== Bugs ===
* Update the hier manpage
* Verify the reboot and shutdown behaviour
*When I put in the [[LiveCD]], I get a boot: prompt and hit enter, followed by something about decompressing, something about initrd, and a lot of dots, then a reboot. And it proceeds to do it again. And then it reboots again, etc at nausium. Please figure out whats wrong


=== Features ===
* run help2man on Scripts to re-generate their manpages
* verify generation of XF86Config, to make it more like  http://en.tldp.org/HOWTO/FDU/x-config.html  (enhance dpi detection)
* put README (and perhaps cloop sources & friends) in the CD root (outside the .cloop file)
* timezone selection on installer
* Generate config files only for the bootloaders that are actually installed

* Update Credits file and other docs before releasing a version <done>


== General to-do list ==

=== General features ===

* [[The Great BootScripts Review]] -- the original idea for the [[BootScripts]] was extremely minimalistic, and it was good while it lasted, but as users needs became more diverse, complexity creeped in. It's about time to clean up the mess.
* DHCP search on live CD for "plug-and-play" networking when possible.
* Use hotplug.  This provides hotplug support.  This is used by the PCI, USB, Firewire, and other subsystem.
* Split KDE in various packages (KDE-Base, KDE-Games, etc)

=== Scripts ===
* Check if "makewhatis -u" should be called at each [[SymlinkProgram]]
* Arrange a way to install a package with [[CompileProgram]] so that installs additional kernel modules in a clean way

=== ISO technical issues ===
* make the update of settings smarter (when Settings <code></code> Current/Defaults/Settings)
* make the update of livecd gobo and [[EnhacedSkel]] smarter (most settings are the same, with exception of .zshrc, Desktop/{[[Installer|Install_GoboLinux]], QTParted})
*When I put in the [[LiveCD]], I get a boot: prompt and hit enter, followed by something about decompressing, something about initrd, and a lot of dots, then a reboot. And it proceeds to do it again. And then it reboots again, etc at nausium. Please figure out whats wrong ----- that probably means your processor is not i686-class; is it a Pentium II or higher? (hint: a K6 is not i686-class). -- [[hisham]]

{{Archival|2009|April|4|Kundor}}