Use Flags are a way to affect the compilation of a [[Recipe]] based on the Programs installed on a system and the user's preferences, without having to edit the Recipe explicitly.  Different configure options may be passed to the program being compiled, and additional hook functions may be run by Compile, depending on which flags are activated.  Flags may be activated by the presence of installed dependencies, or explicitly by the user.

Also see [[Available use flags]].

== Use Flags Names ==
Flags are lower-case alphanumeric plus underscore, and should be named
after what they do - the other program, tool, hardware, or
functionality they enable, with any other characters stripped out if
necessary. Example names would be "python", "ipw2200", "gtk".

== Enabling Use Flags ==
Flags are enabled in three ways. The first is through the global
default flag set, in
/Programs/Scripts/Current/Data/SystemUseFlags.conf. At the moment,
this set is empty, but it will probably end up populated based on what
is used for packages and the ISO. The second is the local flags, set
in /System/Settings/UseFlags.conf. Finally, the USE environment
variable is read for flag specifications. It is intended that this be
used for single Compile runs, such as for testing recipes, and not to
set flags for your system (use UseFlags.conf for that). Later flag
specifications overwrite earlier ones, both in the order listed above
and within the files.

A flag specification has the format (-|+)<flag>[ program1[ program2
...]]. + enables the flag, - disables it, and providing a
space-separated list of programs after the flag makes that
specification apply only to those programs. Only one flag
specification should be included on each line, and everything after a #
is ignored as a comment. An example file for clarity:
 +foo # Enable foo globally. This text is ignored.
 -bar
 +bar FooBar
This enables the foo flag globally and disables bar, but then enables
the bar flag for only the program "FooBar". If the last two lines were
the other way around, bar would be globally disabled again. A special
specification is -*. This disables all flags, and is probably most
useful in the environment variable.

The environment variable takes a space-separated list of flag
specifications (rather than newline), so it accepts a special syntax
for the specifications, with '@' instead of a space when listing
programs to go with a flag. It takes the ugly syntax because it's
likely to be by far the least common way of using it. The same set of
flags from above could be applied with:
 USE="+foo -bar +bar@FooBar"

== Use Flags in Recipes ==

Flags should be listed in the Dependencies or BuildDependencies file
in the same manner as the existing cross/!cross flag:
 FooBar >= 1.2 [foo,bar]
Flags are separated by commas, and treated as a disjunction - the
dependency will be enabled if and only if at least one of the listed
flags is enabled. If the cross/!cross flag is specified, it must be
the first flag listed (technical limitation; may be lifted in time).

If a flag has no associated dependency, first consider whether it is
necessary at all, or whether support should just be enabled by
default. If the flag is necessary, it should be listed at the end of
the Dependencies file as an entry without a corresponding dependency:
 FooBar >= 1.2 [foo,bar]
 [baz,quux]
Dependency-free flags may be necessary when associated with hardware,
or when there is some lengthy compilation, large filesize, or mutual
incompatibility associated with them.

Within a Recipe file, the with_<flag> variable may be set for the
common case of adding a configure option:
 with_gtk="--with-gtk=$gtk__path"

Or to add multiple configure options:
 with_gtk=(
    "--with-gtk=$gtk_path"
    "--with-foo=$foo_path"
    "--with-bar=$bar_path"
 )

This will add the value of the variables to the most common
configuration array for the recipe type. For configure, this is
configure_options; python, python_options; makefile, build_variables;
scons, scons_variables; cmake, cmake_options; cabal, cabal_options. In
the case where more complicated changes are needed to enable support,
there is a function using_<flag>() available:
 using_gtk() {
    configure_options=( "${configure_options[@]}" "--with-gtk=$gtk__path" )
 }
This example does the same thing as the with_gtk one above, but the
function can alter other variables as well. It should not alter code,
execute scripts, move files, or apply patches; that is what the flag
hook functions are for. Each of the existing hook functions (pre_link,
pre_patch, pre_build, pre_install, post_install) has a corresponding
using_<flag>_<hook() function:
 using_gtk_pre_build() {
    rm -rf *
 }
These are run through Run_Hook and so are sudoed the same as the bare
hooks (for the moment). This may cause problems if you create files or
directories from the hook, so keep it in mind (it applies to all hook
functions, but it should be noted especially too). If necessary, you
can unsudo yourself with `exec sudo -u "$SUDO_USER" -H env SUDO_OK=1
$0 "${@}"`. That won't affect anything other than the
currently-executing hook, so it should be safe.

In most cases, dependencies are autodetected by configure correctly
and no change to the Recipe file will be necessary. In that case, the
with_<flag> variables should *not* be used only to convey redundant
information, and the flag should just be listed appropriately in
Dependencies. Note that this means that unlike Gentoo's, our flags are
not exclusive: their support may be compiled in even if the flag is
disabled, if the dependency is installed and autodetected correctly.
Compilations using ChrootCompile will not experience this effect, as
the dependency will be left out of the chroot environment.

This means that in the ideal world of well-behaved software, the
Recipe file itself should need no modification at all. Complex or less
well-behaved software will inevitably end up with longer and more
complicated recipes, but in most cases they should be concise and
simple.

In all cases, only the variables and functions for flags that are both
enabled and listed in the (Build)?Dependencies file will be applied,
and others have no effect even if the flag is enabled. This avoids
looping through many inapplicable flags several times during the
Compile process.

The flags enabled for a given compilation are saved into
Resources/UseFlags in the installed program directory. This enables
tools such as Freshen to display which flags have changed state since
the last installation of a given program, or find programs that could
benefit from recompilation.

== Use Flags in Tools Development ==

Flags are accessed from the shell through the UseFlags script, which
takes either a program name or a recipe directory as its first
argument. The latter method is preferred where possible, because it
will read the Dependencies file and limit the flags to only those
listed there; giving just a name will include all flags that would be
enabled for that program (including global flags that it doesn't use
at all). With only one argument, it will output the list of flags to
standard output, one per line, suitable for iterating in a script or
saving to a file. If called with no arguments, it will do the same for
only global flags.

Given a second argument of a flag to test, the script returns true if
the flag is enabled, and false otherwise. If the -v option is
specified, it will also output a message giving the state of the flag.

From Python, the module is named `UseFlags` and may be imported as
usual. The most important method is `UseFlags`, which takes an
(optional) program parameter, which can also be either a recipe
directory or a program name. It returns a frozenset of the enabled
flags. The return value is cached, so the method may be called
repeatedly with the same arguments without much penalty. Another
useful public method is `potentialFlags`, which takes *only* a recipe
directory and returns a frozenset of all the flags that could possibly
be enabled for that recipe. Freshen uses that to provide output on
which flags could be enabled, modeled after emerge, only without the
ugliness. The other methods should be treated as private.

See the [http://thread.gmane.org/gmane.linux.distributions.gobo.devel/2593 mailing list thread.]
{{Compile}}