{{Wiki Team Navigation}}

This page outlines the content structure of the wiki and describes
procedures and guidelines for periodic wiki maintenance.

__TOC__


= Goals of this page =

This page describes guidelines and policies that are designed to:

* Improve the quality and consistency of the wiki
* Establish a common vision of what the wiki should be
* Coordinate the voluntary content contributions of multiple users


= Audience of the wiki =

The wiki is designed to serve the following groups:

{| border=1

| '''Potential&nbsp;Users''' || People who are considering using Gobo Linux and/or Gobo Rootless.  (Henceforth the abbreviation "Gobo" shall signify "Gobo Linux and/or Gobo Rootless.)
|-

| '''Beginning&nbsp;Users''' || People who have decided to install and use Gobo.
|-

| '''Advanced&nbsp;Users''' || Advanced Users are beginning users who have progressed to the point that they are comfortable using Gobo on a daily basis to perform routine tasks and routine system maintenance.  At least some Advanced Users will contribute to the Wiki, submit bug reports, and submit new recipes.
|-

| '''Development&nbsp;Team''' || The group of volunteers who produce Gobo.
|-

|}


= Goals of the wiki =

# Help Potential Users efficiently decide whether or not to install Gobo
# Help Beginning Users efficiently become Advanced Users
# Inform Advanced Users how to
## Customize Gobo to their specific needs
## Submit new and updated recipes
## Submit detailed bug reports
# Document the Development Team's roadmap for Gobo
# Provide Wiki style forums for roadmap discussions


= Content categories =

The main content of the wiki is divided into the following categories.

{| border=1

! Category !! Content Description !! Editor
|-

|
'''About&nbsp;Gobo'''
| Introductory high-level information about Gobo.  Pages should target Potential Users.  [[Main Page]] is also in the About Gobo category.
| [[User:Mpb|Mpb]]
|-

|
'''Community'''
| Information about the Gobo community, mailing lists, IRC channels, bug tracking, recipe submission, etc.
| Help&nbsp;wanted
|-

|
:Blogs
| Users' blog-style posting about their experiences with Gobo.
| Help&nbsp;wanted
|-

|
: Discussions
| Wiki-style discussions on Gobo related topics.
| Help&nbsp;wanted
|-

|
'''Documentation'''
| No pages, just sub-categories.
| [[User:Mpb|Mpb]]
|-

|
:Handbook
| A linear series of tutorial-style pages targeted at Beginning Users.  Should contain Everything (or almost everything?) that Beggining Users need to know in order to start using Gobo productively and become Advanced Users.
| Help&nbsp;wanted
|-

|
:Howtos
| An unordered collection of task specific tutorials targeting Advanced Users.  Should enable Advanced Users to customize Gobo to their individual tastes and needs.
| Help&nbsp;wanted
|-

|
:Platforms
| Information about running Gobo on a specific platform.  Hopefully, one page per platform.
| Help&nbsp;wanted
|-

|
:Reference
| Reference pages targeting Advanced Users.  Man-page style or glossary definition style.
| Help&nbsp;wanted
|-

|}


= Wiki Team categories =

In addition to the main content categories discussed above, there are
also a number of Wiki Team categories.  Pages in these categories are
related to the ongoing maintenance and internal function of the wiki.

{| border=1

| 
'''Wiki&nbsp;Team'''
| All the pages in this category and its sub-categories relate to the ever ongoing task of maintaining the wiki.
| [[User:Mpb|Mpb]]
|-

|
:Archival
| Pages that are obsolete and no longer maintained but that may still be of historical interest.
| Help&nbsp;wanted
|-

|
:Backlinks
| (Internal maintenance category - description not yet written)
| [[User:Mpb|Mpb]]
|-

|
:Maintenance
| (Internal maintenance category - description not yet written)
| [[User:Mpb|Mpb]]
|-

|
:Redirects
| (Internal maintenance category - description not yet written)
| [[User:Mpb|Mpb]]
|-

|
:Todo
| (Internal maintenance category - description not yet written)
| [[User:Mpb|Mpb]]
|-

|
:Trash
| Pages that have been marked for future deletion.
| [[User:Mpb|Mpb]]
|-

|
:Users
| Pages that need to be moved to the Users: namespace.
| Help&nbsp;wanted
|-

|}

= Category Maintenance Guidelines =

== All categories ==

* Editors are encouraged to set standards for the pages in their sections.  If possible, those standards should be listed here on this page.

* All categories should have an entry page that serves a convenient navigation entry point for "drilling down" to specific content within the category.  The entry page should be specified on the category's Category page, below the "Categories at a glance" navigation template.

* Collections of interlinked short pages focused around a single topic should be merged into a single page divided into sections.  (The Reference category is an exception to this rule.)

* Redundant content within a single category should also be merged into a single page.

== Quartely Review Process ==

At the bottom of every page is a "This page last reviewed" date
marker.  Editors should review all pages in their assigned categories
at least every 3 months.  This process will be streamlined via a
2-click per page PHP "macro"-script that [[User::Mpb]] will write,
hopefully by the end of March 2007.

During the review process, editors should ask themselves the following
questions regarding each page:

* Is the page in the correct category, or does the page belong in a different category?
* Is the information on the page still current and relevant?
* Has there been any wiki-vandalism to the content of the page?
* Do I need to contact someone to update the content on the page?
* Does the page follow the standards for the category?
* Does the page use wiki formatting (links, tables, lists, outlines, sections, etc.) to increase its readability and usability?
* Does the entry page for the category make it reasonably easy to find this page?

Below are questions that pertain to specific categories.

=== About Gobo ===

* Will Potential Users understand the content of the page?
* Does the page provide sufficient context?

=== Community ===

* Will Potential Users understand the content of the page?

=== Blogs & Discusions ===

* Is the page still relevant?
* Has the page been edited recently?
* Should the page be archived?
* Does the page provide sufficient context?

=== Handbook ===

* Is the page a sectioned, step-by-step tutorial explaining how to perform a given task?  (Most handbook pages should feel like tutorials.)
* Does the page provide sufficient background context for Beginning Users?
* Does the handbook (taken as a whole) walk Beginning Users through all the steps needed for them to become advanced users?

=== Platforms and Howtos ===

* Is the page divided into sections?
* Does content overlap other pages?  (Overlapping pages should typically be merged into a single page.)
* Does each section describe one step in the process?
* Who is maintaining the howto?
* Has he/she updated it recently?
* Does the howto need to be marked as "out of date"?

=== Reference ===

* Short, definition or manpage style page are acceptable.
* [[:Category:Reference]] may be used as an entry page for this category.  No custom entry page is needed.

=== Archival ===

* Is the page still worth archiving, or should it be moved to the trash?

{{Wiki Team}}