Page is "Work in progress<br>
(Setup a wireless configuration using Atheros based NIC)<br>
<br>
The test machine for the article is a lenovo Thinkpad x60.<br>
<br>
- For Intel Pro Wireless, you need firmware. (ndis-wrapper)<br>
- Atheros-based cards, you'll need madwifi.<br>
<br>
You will need to install madwifi:
<blockquote>
Compile madwifi <br/>
</blockquote>
As usual on GoboLinux everything (including dependencies) 
is being compiled and installed with just this simple command.

After a reboot, you should see the following:
<blockquote>
root@kanzume /] iwconfig <br/>
lo        no wireless extensions. <br/>
 <br/>
eth0      no wireless extensions. <br/>
 <br/>
wifi0     no wireless extensions. <br/>
 <br/>
ath0      IEEE 802.11g  ESSID:""  Nickname:"" <br/>
          Mode:Managed  Channel:0  Access Point: Not-Associated <br/>
          Bit Rate:0 kb/s   Tx-Power:12 dBm   Sensitivity=1/1 <br/>
          Retry:off   RTS thr:off   Fragment thr:off <br/>
          Encryption key:000D-0BB8-667A   Security mode:open <br/>
          Power Management:off <br/>
          Link Quality=0/70  Signal level=-98 dBm  Noise level=-98 dBm <br/>
          Rx invalid nwid:2247  Rx invalid crypt:0  Rx invalid frag:0 <br/>
          Tx excessive retries:0  Invalid misc:0   Missed beacon:0 <br/>
root@kanzume /]     <br/>
</blockquote>

- Bringing up/down the interface, set the IPs and such is the same as for any other NIC: with ifconfig.<br>
- Selecting ESSID and encyption keys are done with iwconfig<br>

*make ath0 up:  ifconfig ath0 up
*Scan network:  iwlist ath0 scan
*Connect to acces point (AP):
Using AP mac:  iwconfig ath0 ap 00:0D:02:77:90:00<br>
Using AP ESSID (network name):  iwconfig ath0 essid "sakura77"<br>
Let driver choose AP to use:  iwconfig ath0 ap auto<br>
*set Security mode:  iwconfig ath0 enc open

[http://www.hpl.hp.com/personal/Jean_Tourrilhes/Linux/Tools.html wirelessTools]
[http://madwifi.org/wiki/UserDocs/FirstTimeHowTo madwifi howto]
