= Introduction =
A list of things to remember after the first boot.  This page is intended to be similar in spirit to the [http://www.openbsd.org/cgi-bin/man.cgi?query=afterboot&apropos=0&sektion=0&manpath=OpenBSD+Current&arch=i386&format=html  afterboot]  man page of the [http://www.openbsd.org<!--/--> OpenBSD] project.

I (Peter Eriksen) will be updating this page as I'm setting things up. I didn't find anything similar in the documentation, so here goes.  It applies to release 011, and hopefully some of the things are built into the upcomming 012 release.

= [[LiveCD]] Tricks =
If X isn't set up correctly in the installation but works fine on the [[LiveCD]], it might be good to cp the one from the running [[LiveCD]] to the installation.  Here it's done through a floppy:
<blockquote>
~]mount /Mount/Floppy <br/>
~]cp /System/Settings/X11/XF86Config /Mount/Floppy/ <br/>
</blockquote>

If networking with DHCP doesn't work on the [[LiveCD]] try this:
<blockquote>
~]dhcpcd <br/>
</blockquote>

= Privilege Escalation =
Add user peter to the system group "sys".  The user could also be added to a group wheel, but I guess, since there is already a group sys with user gobo in it and no group wheel, then it's natural to use sys as the administrator group.
<blockquote>
~]usermod -G sys peter <br/>
</blockquote>
''Below only applies to GoboLinux 013 and earlier as it is default since GoboLinux 014'' <br />
Next give peter root privileges by configuring the sudoers file.
<blockquote>
~]visudo <br/>
</blockquote>
Add e.g. the following line or something similar
<blockquote>
%sys ALL=(ALL) NOPASSWD:ALL <br/>
</blockquote>

= Timezone =
<blockquote>
~]ls -l /Programs/Glibc/Settings/localtime <br/>
lrwxrwxrwx  1 gobo gobo 56 2004-12-16 13:42 /Programs/Glibc/Settings/localtime -> /Programs/Glibc/Current/share/zoneinfo/America/Sao_Paulo <br/>
~]sudo ln -sf /Programs/Glibc/Current/Shared/zoneinfo/Europe/Copenhagen /Programs/Glibc/Settings/localtime <br/>
~]sudo ln -sf /Programs/Glibc/Current/Shared/zoneinfo/Europe/Copenhagen /System/Settings/localtime <br/>
</blockquote>
It might be relevant to set the zoneinfo of the system clock.
<blockquote>
~]ls /usr/share/zoneinfo <br/>
</blockquote>
(Suppose you want to use GMT)
<blockquote>
~]ln -sf /usr/share/zoneinfo/GMT /etc/localtime <br/>
</blockquote>

= X.Org =
If the X configuration file from the [[LiveCD]] was saved on a floppy, copy it to the installation.
<blockquote>
~]mount /Mount/Floppy <br/>
~]sudo cp /Mount/Floppy/XF86Config /System/Settings/X11/XF86Config <br/>
</blockquote>

=  Boot Menu =
<blockquote>
~]sudo cp /System/Kernel/Boot/grub/menu.lst /System/Kernel/Boot/grub/menu.lst.backup <br/>
~]sudo vi /System/Kernel/Boot/grub/menu.lst <br/>
</blockquote>

= Terminal Settings =
If remote ssh programs doesn't work it might be because of the terminal settings.  In that case a workaround could be:
<blockquote>
~]echo $TERM <br/>
xterm-color <br/>
~]export TERM=xterm <br/>
</blockquote>

= Compile Settings =
<blockquote>
~]sudo vim /Programs/Compile/Settings/Compile/Compile.conf <br/>
</blockquote>
Put your name in compile[[RecipeAuthor]]="" and uncomment.
Comment the line "http://cscience.org/~gobo/recipe-store".  Use http://www.gobolinux.org/recipe-store/ instead.

=  Updating the [[GoboLinux]] Infrastructure =
It might be wise to upgrade Compile and other programs
before attempting to compile or install other programs
<blockquote>
~]InstallPackage Scripts <br/>
~]InstallPackage Compile <br/>
</blockquote>

= Known Issues =
Remember to look over the [http://www.gobolinux.org/index.php?page=known_issues_014 known issues] for things that might affect you.
Also see if any of the [http://bugs.gobolinux.org tracking bugs] affect you.

= Miscellaneous Files to Check =
<blockquote>
/System/Settings/~BootScripts/Options <br/>
/System/Settings/hosts <br/>
/System/Settings/resolv.conf <br/>
/System/Settings/fstab <br/>
/System/Settings/modprobe.conf <br/>
</blockquote>

= NVIDIA Driver =
In GoboLinux 0.14.1 you will first have to compile a custom kernel without Xen virtualisation as that is unsupported by NVIDIA's proprietary driver. Once that is done, just do:

<blockquote>
~]Compile nvidia <br/>
</blockquote>

Then edit /System/Settings/X11/xorg.conf. You need at least to change 'Driver "nv"' into 'Driver "nvidia"' outcomment "Load dri" if present.

= Workarounds for Recipe Problems =
<blockquote>
~]cd /Programs/SDL/Current/include <br/>
~]ln -s SDL/* . <br/>
~]SymlinkProgram SDL <br/>
</blockquote>

= Todo: =
== Soundcard Drivers ==
== Power-Off ==
http://www.tldp.org/HOWTO/ACPI-HOWTO/ .
== hdparm ==
== Hardware Sensors ==

{{Handbook}}

[[Category:Howtos]]
