---
title: "Recipe Types"
weight: 2
---

Supported recipe types (also known as modes), to be given as argument to
recipe_type:

### configure

**`recipe_type=configure`** is used for Programs based on "configure" scripts,
(autoconf or not.) Some options are only relevant for configure:

**`configure_options=(<array></array>)`**

Flags to be passed to the configure script. These flags are passed in addition
to default flags detected by [`PrepareProgram`]({{%relref "PrepareProgram" %}})
(such as --prefix and --sysconfdir on autoconf-based configure scripts), unless
the override_default_options declaration is used.

**`autogen_before_configure=yes`**

Use it if you need to run `./autogen.sh` in order to generate the configure
script.

#### autogen

The program to run for the above. Defaults to `autogen.sh`.

**`configure=<program></program>`**

By default the configure script is assumed to be called "configure". Use this
variable to override this value. Remember that the current directory during
execution will still be the one set by the dir variable, even if a directory
path is given (as in the second example below). If the behavior you intended is
for Compile to "cd" to the "unix" directory and run its build sequence there,
use dir instead.

Examples (only one applies at a time):

```fish
configure=Configure.gnu
configure=unix/configure
```

### cabal

**`recipe_type=cabal`** is used for Programs based on "Haskell Cabal". Some
options are only relevant for cabal:

**`cabal_options=(<array></array>)`**

Flags to be passed to the Cabal configure operation. These flags are passed in
addition to default flags detected by
[`PrepareProgram`]({{%relref "PrepareProgram" %}}) (such as --prefix) unless the
override_default_options declaration is used.

#### runhaskell

Specifies the method of invoking Haskell to perform a Cabal-based compilation.
The default is "runhaskell".

### cmake

**`recipe_type=cmake`** is used for Programs based on CMake. Some options are
only relevant for cmake:

**`cmake_options=(<array></array>)`**

Flags to be passed to the CMake configure operation. These flags are passed in
addition to default flags (such as -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX).

**`cmake_variables=(<array></array>)`**

Variables to be defined in the environment during the execution of cmake.

### makefile

**`recipe_type=makefile`** is used for Programs based on Makefiles. No options
are relevant only for makefile.

### meson

**`recipe_type=meson`** is used for Programs based on Meson. Some options are
only relevant for meson:

**`meson_variables=(<array></array>)`**

Variables to be defined in the environment during the execution of meson.

### python

**`recipe_type=python`** is used for Programs based on Python Distutils. Some
options are only relevant for python:

**`python_options=(<array></array>)`**

Array of options to be passed to the Python Distutils build script. This works
similarly to the configure_options array.

**`build_script=<name></name>`**

Specify the same for the Python build script. If none is given, Compile tries a
few default ones, such as setup.py.

### scons

**`recipe_type=scons`** is used for Programs based on SCons. Some options are
only relevant for scons:

**`scons_variables=(<array></array>)`**

Variables to be passed to scons.

### xmkmf

**`recipe_type=xmkmf`** is used for Programs based on X11 Imake. No options are
relevant only for xmkmf.

### manifest

**`recipe_type=manifest`** is used to directly copy appropriate files from the
archive into place. Some options are only relevant for manifest:

**`manifest=(<array></array>)`**

Specify which files should be copied over, and to where. Destination is relative
to target.

Example:

```fish
manifest=(
   "some_script:bin"
   "include/a_header.h:include"
   "lib/libfoo.so:lib"
   "some_script.1:man/man1/some_script.1"
)
```

### meta

**`recipe_type=meta`** only depends on other Recipes. All included recipes are
built relative to the same installation prefix. Some options are only relevant
for meta:

**`include=(\<array>\</array>)`**

In a meta-recipe, this array holds the list of recipes that should be built to
constitute the complete program. Recipe names should be in the format
"App--1.0". The order of the entries in the array is significant, because it is
the order in which the recipes are built. {{% notice note %}} Be careful with
the order, because re-building a meta-package that's already installed may cover
up ordering problems. {{% /notice %}}

**`part_of=<parent></parent>`**

Indicates that this recipe is generally included as part of a meta-recipe.
Unless Compile is called with "-i"/"--install-separately", the Program will be
installed into the parent Program's directory. Implies keep_existing_target.

**`update_each_settings=yes`**

In meta-recipes, Compile only calls UpdateSettings for the meta-recipe and not
for its sub-recipes. Set this variable to override this behavior and have
UpdateSettings called in every sub-recipe.
