{{Wiki Team Navigation}}
This page describes the preferred methods of contributing to the wiki.
By following these processes, readers and editors will help to keep
the wiki clean and healthy.

__TOC__

=== How to... ===

==== Comment on a page ====

Please leave comments on the page's discussion page, not the page itself.

==== Ask a question ====

Asking a question is like leaving a comment, but it increases the
chances than an editor will read your question and possibly answer it
in the wiki.

You can put a question in the article at the location you think answering text would be appropriate.  The question won't show up in the page; instead, all questions asked this way will be listed at [[Project:Questions]], where editors can see them.  Just edit the page and add a line like

<code><nowiki>{{Question | How can Gobo be so awesome?}}</nowiki></code>

at the appropriate place.

==== Request additional content ====

See: Ask a question (above).

==== Create a new page ====

If it is obvious where a page should be linked in, go ahead and create
the link, and then create the page.  Please add the page to the
correct category (see below), but please do not set the last-reviewed
date.  This will help the category editor find and review your page.

==== Add/move a page to a category ====

Please use the category templates to add the page to a category.

{{Todo | insert example of categorizing page }}

If you move a page to a new category, please do not set the last
reviewed date.  Instead, leave it blank.  That will help the category
editor to find and review the page.

==== Moderate or contribute to a page in the Discussions category ====

Should discussion pages use both the article page and the discussion
page?  The article page could lay out the topic that is being
discussed.  Each such discussion would need a moderator who would read
the discussion page and update the article page accordingly.

==== Add a page to a category ====

==== Mark a page as reviewed ====

==== Delete pages ====

=== Wiki Team Policies ===

==== Template ====

The [[List of templates]] should list all templates.  If you create templates, please add them to the appropriate section of the list.

{{Wiki Team}}