Link a program from the /Programs hierarchy in the /System tree.

Usage: '''SymlinkProgram''' [<options>] <program''name> [<program''version>]

Options:
* '''-h, --help''' - Shows this help.
* '''-v, --version''' - Show program version.
* '''-V, --verbose''' - Enable verbose mode.
* '''-s, --settings''' ''<entry>'' - Link settings into /System/Settings: 'yes', 'no' or 'safe'. The default value is 'yes'.
* '''-l, --libraries''' ''<entry>'' - Link libraries into /System/Index/lib: 'yes', 'no' or 'safe'. The default value is 'yes'.
* '''-e, --executables''' ''<entry>'' - Link executables into /System/Index/bin: 'yes', 'no' or 'safe'. The default value is 'yes'.
* '''-h, --headers''' ''<entry>'' - Link headers into /System/Index/include: 'yes', 'no' or 'safe'. The default value is 'yes'.
* '''-a, --shared''' ''<entry>'' - Link shared files into /System/Index/share: 'yes', 'no' or 'safe'. The default value is 'yes'.
* '''-w, --wrappers''' ''<entry>'' - Link wrappers into /System/Index/bin: 'yes', 'no' or 'safe'. The default value is 'yes'.
* '''-t, --tasks''' ''<entry>'' - Link tasks into /System/Index/bin: 'yes', 'no' or 'safe'. The default value is 'yes'.
* '''-E, --no-environment''' - Do not link entries from /System/Environment.
* '''-A, --no-variable''' - Do not move variable files into /System/Variable.
* '''-M, --no-doc''' - Do not link manuals and info files.
* '''-S, --no-strip''' - Do not strip executables.
* '''-X, --cross-compile''' - lets [[GoboPath]] export directories based on $cross[[PrefixDir]].
* '''-C, --cleanup''' - Clean up after installation.
* '''-c, --conflict''' ''<entry>'' - What to do on conflicts, 'keep' or 'overwrite'. The default value is 'keep'.
* '''-n, --no-make''' - Dummy option. Preserved for backwards compatibility.
* '''-r, --relative''' - Use relative paths to link files from /Programs.
* '''-t, --rootfs''' - Copy program to rootfs if a symlink.

If no program version is specified, Current is assumed.

Examples:

    SymlinkProgram WeirdSuperLib 2.4 


{{Scripts}}
