'''SystemFind''' is a special 'find' utility for searches in the /System hierarchy.

In a usual Linux distro, a binary, library or header can be in one of many places. In GoboLinux, we have the /System/Links tree that works like a natural index: every binary is under /System/Links/Executables, every library under Libraries, etc. To know where exactly a program is (in other words, which package it is a part of), one can just do "l" (alias for [[List]], and ls -l equivalent) to see where does the link point too. For executables, the [[which]] command is even more convenient.

Based on this idea of the /System/Links tree as a "filesystem index", we have the [[SystemFind]] script, which scans it and returns the linked files directly. Scanning /S/L is much faster than scanning the entire /Programs tree: there are less directories to traverse (and at least in [[ReiserFS]], symlinks are stored in the same inode as the directory, making it a time and space efficient operation).

Additionally, since directories like /System/Links/Libraries and /System/Links/Executables are accessed frequently, they are usually in the disk cache.

Usage: SystemFind [<flags>] <search_pattern>

Options:
* '''-h, --help''' - Shows this help.
* '''-v, --version''' - Show program version.
* '''-V, --verbose''' - Enable verbose mode.
* '''-e, --executables''' - Search for executables in /System/Links/Executables.
* '''-l, --libraries''' - Search for libraries in /System/Links/Libraries.
* '''-i, --headers''' - Search for include headers in /System/Links/Headers.
* '''-s, --settings''' - Search for settings in /System/Settings.
* '''-m, --manuals''' - Search for manuals in /System/Links/Manuals.
* '''-q, --quick''' - By default, it will descend through symlinks that point to directories, scanning the actual files. If you know you're looking for a file that's in the top level of a directory hierarchy (man pages, executables, C libraries, etc.), use --quick so that directory symlinks are not fully traversed, greatly speeding up your search. (Note that this was the default behavior in old versions of [[SystemFind]].)

If no flags are set, all system locations are scanned.

Examples:

    SystemFind -i -l freetype 


{{Scripts}}
