---
title: "Configuring the Boot Process"
linkTitle: "Startup and System settings"
weight: 7
---

This page describes the boot process and how to configure your GoboLinux system
by editing the configuration files used for startup.

## General architecture

The [BootDriver]({{%relref "BootDriver" %}}) script
(`/Programs/BootScript/<version>/bin/BootDriver`) manages boot-related tasks.
The `init` program (from the Sysvinit package) running as `PID 1` calls
BootDriver as specified in `/System/Settings/inittab`.

[BootDriver]({{%relref "BootDriver" %}}) first loads the [boot theme
file]({{%relref "Boot-Themes" %}}) specified in `/System/Settings/BootOptions`.
Then BootDriver runs the appropriate boot script for the task at hand (startup,
shutdown, etc.)

## Boot Scripts

GoboLinux boot scripts initialize and configure the system, manage daemons, and
perform shutdown. They are located at `/System/Settings/BootScripts`.

-   `BootUp`, the primary startup script, is invoked when you turn on the power
    and the system boots. It contains generic initializations common to most
    Linux systems. Additional scripts are provided to support particular boot
    scenarios.
    -   `Console` runs BootUp and performs initializations required for a
        console session.
    -   `Graphic` runs BootUp and starts X to provide a login window.
-   `Shutdown` is the primary shutdown script, analogous to BootUp. It is used
    by the following termination scripts:
    -   `Reboot` runs Shutdown to terminate system services then reboots the
        machine.
    -   `Halt` runs Shutdown and turns off the power, if possible. Otherwise it
        halts the processor.

Each of these scripts contains lines of the form:

```fish
Exec "Message..." SomeCommand [ parameters ]
```

For example, to adjust the keyboard delay and repeat rate in the console, you
can add this line to `/System/Settings/BootScripts/Console`:

```fish
Exec "Making keyboard speedy..." kbdrate -r 30 -d 250
```

GoboLinux also provides ["boot tasks"]({{%relref "Boot-script-tasks" %}}) as a more
sophisticated way of managing services.

## Configuration options

When GoboLinux boots, the boot scripts launch programs to configure the
keyboard, set the system clock, initialize the network, etc.

The parameters for calling these programs are placed in
`/System/Settings/BootOptions` and `/System/Settings/NetworkOptions`. Both files
contain entries of the form:

```ini
Option=value
```

Note that no space is allowed before or after the `=` character. This is shell
syntax, allowing the options to be imported into the boot scripts using the
`source` command.

The following sections document options available in
`/System/Settings/BootOptions` and `/System/Settings/NetworkOptions`.

### Clock mode

GoboLinux needs to know if your hardware clock is set to GMT or local time.
Specify this by editing the ClockMode option. Set `ClockMode=GMT` if your
hardware clock is set to GMT. Set `ClockMode=LocalTime` if your hardware clock
is set to local time.

For obtaining time zone information, Linux applications rely on information
provided by Glibc, the C library. Glibc, on its turn, uses the `localtime`
symlink in its Settings directory (`/Programs/Glibc/Settings/localtime`) to
indicate the active time zone. This symlink is created by the installer
according to the time zone you selected. You can set this setting manually, by
pointing the `localtime` symlink to a different file under
`/Programs/Glibc/Current/Shared/zoneinfo`.

The ClockMode information is used for the hwclock utility, which is launched at
boot time through the SetClock task.

### Console setup

#### Fonts

Fonts in GoboLinux are stored under `/System/Index/share/consolefonts` and
`/System/Index/share/fonts`. They provide character typefaces for the Linux
console, the X Window System, and `ghostscript`, the Linux postscript
interpreter.

Font path configuration for X can be found in `/System/Settings/X11/xorg.conf`
and `/System/Settings/fonts/fonts.conf`.

To change the default console font used by GoboLinux, use the ConsoleFont option
in `/System/Settings/BootOptions`.

You can also change the console font using the `setfont` utility. See
`man setfont` for details.

Remember that this setting changes only the console font. On X, applications
have their own font settings.

#### Keymap

Use the KeymapLayout option in `/System/Settings/BootOptions` to select an
appropriate console keyboard layout.

The available keymaps are in the KBD package; they are the .map files. You can
set the console keyboard layout at any time by running loadkeys. For example, to
set the Dvorak keymap, just type in:

```fish
loadkeys dvorak.map
```

#### Mouse

The MouseType and MouseDevice options in `/System/Settings/BootScripts/BootUp`
configure mouse support on the console. They are disabled by default.

### Graphical display setup (X server)

#### Keymap

The keyboard layout for programs running under the window manager is mapped
according the `InputDevice` section in `/System/Settings/xorg.conf` when the
graphic display (X server) starts. With the window manager running, you can
change keyboard mappings and display settings using `setxkbmap`, `xmodmap`, and
`xset` tools. To select a Dvorak keyboard layout, type `setxkbmap dvorak` in a
terminal. These commands can also be placed in `$HOME/.xinitrc`.

Some desktop environments also offer graphical tools for setting the keyboard
layout. For example, in KDE you can configure this at the KDE Control Center.

#### Mouse

The mouse pointer for the graphical display is defined in an `InputDevice`
section in `/System/Settings/xorg.conf`. The [Installer]({{%relref "Installer" %}})
should correctly detect your hardware and set suitable defaults for your system.
If not, you can always try a failsafe setup such as:

```xorg
Section "InputDevice"
Identifier  "Mouse0"
Driver      "mouse"
Option      "Protocol" "auto"
Option      "Device" "/dev/input/mice"
Option      "ZAxisMapping" "4 5"
EndSection
```

There is nothing GoboLinux-specific about mouse setup on X. You can find HOWTOs
and tutorials around the net that can give you more detailed instructions about
this. (But feel free to drop by at the mailing list if you're still stuck!)

### Kernel modules

Through the use of Udev, GoboLinux is capable of loading kernel modules (e.g.
device drivers) automatically at boot. In cases Udev doesn't load some wanted
drivers, the user can explicitly request them.

One way is to edit `/System/Settings/modprobe.conf` (similar to other Linux
distributions), however a simpler way in GoboLinux is to list desired modules in
`/System/Settings/BootOptions`. This is how to load the i810_audio audio driver
and sk98lin ethernet driver:

```fish
UserDefinedModules=(
    "i810_audio"
    "sk98lin"
)
```

The startup scripts read this array and run modprobe each line. The entries may
include additional parameters.

### Network configuration

#### Wi-Fi

If you are using Wi-Fi, just select your network using the
[GoboNet](http://github.com/gobolinux/GoboNet) widget in the AwesomeWM system
tray:

![GoboNet Widget](https://gobolinux.org/images/gobo016gobonet.png)

#### Wired network

If you have a wired network, initialize it on boot using standard Linux commands
in your bootscripts sequence.

First, check which are your network interfaces typing

```fish
ifconfig
```

You should have a network interface named something like `eth0` or `enp0s3`.

Edit the `/System/Settings/BootScripts/BootUp` script. If you are using DHCP,
just add this:

```fish
dhcpcd eth0 &
```

If you have a static network configuration, place commands similar to the
following in BootUp.

```fish
ifconfig eth0 192.168.1.5 netmask 255.255.255.0
route add default gateway 192.168.1.1 metric 1 dev eth0
```

The nameserver can be specified in `/etc/resolv.conf`
(`/System/Settings/resolv.conf`). To use Google's nameservers, you can edit
resolv.conf to:

```fish
nameserver 8.8.8.8
nameserver 8.8.4.4
```

### Automated login

If you wish to use an automated login, there are several ways to achieve this
goal.

For KDE (or KDM, it also has a configuration which allows you to tweak it a lot)
you can use this:

1.  Open Control Center in administrative mode.
2.  Select Login Manager.
3.  Under the Convenience tab check "Enable auto-login" and select which user
    you should log in as.
4.  Click "Apply".

If you do not use KDE or want a non-GUI based solution, one way is to use
rungetty.

1.  In your inittab file (for example, `nano /etc/inittab`) find the line which
    includes `tty1` (it's your first terminal, the default showing up on login).
2.  Now, you will see `agetty` in there - change this `agetty` line to
    `rungetty tty1 --autologin your_username`.

Of course, replace your_username with the user you want to login as.

Using another tty than 1 may be useful too.

## Printers

GoboLinux comes with CUPS installed by default.

## Audio

Note that ALSA is muted by default, to automatically save and restore changes
done in e.g. alsamixer, add these lines to your boot scripts.

```fish
Done: Exec "Storing ALSA settings..."
alsactl store
```
