The [http://code.google.com/soc/ Google Summer of Code] program sponsors tertiary students to contribute to open-source projects. This page documents some potential project ideas for eligible students, requirements and skills needed for them, and possible mentors for each project. Project submissions are due by April 3, 2009 and after March 23, 2009. Projects are free to expand on these ideas or be entirely new ideas not listed here.

==/System/Aliens==
Potential mentors: Michael, Hisham, Detsch, Jonas

A system to hook third-party packaging systems (CPAN, RubyGems, Lua Rocks, ...) into the GoboLinux tools so that programs may depend on modules from these repositories. The tools would control their own trees under /System/Aliens and be hooked in to the system tools by wrapper modules, called when a program had a dependency of the form "RubyGems:Ruby-GTK".

/System/Aliens would fully integrate the third-party packaging systems into the GoboLinux system, eliminating the need to repackage and meaning the standard tools could be used to administer them. New releases could be installed immediately without waiting for the distribution to update, and other programs could easily depend on them. It is believed that this integration would be a first among distributions and give significant advantages to users and developers.

This would require knowledge of Bash scripting and Python, as well as understanding the system tools and layout. It would also require researching how each third-party system functioned.

==ViewFS (/System/Index)==
Potential mentors: Lucas, Hisham

/System/Index is a plan to replace the /System/Index with a FUSE-based filesystem which can present to each process a different view of the tree, showing them links that match the required dependencies of the process. ViewFS would be that filesystem, and would have application outside GoboLinux in any cases where process-specific views of the filesystem is desired.

There is prototype code for it written, showing it can be done, but it's a big change to the system, and we were not able to focus on this enough to make it a reality (...yet). Hisham wrote a detailed post to -devel outlining what the [http://lists.gobolinux.org/pipermail/gobolinux-devel/2007-January/001979.html goals of the /System/Index change] would be.

This would require strong C and filesystem experience and a good understanding of how the system tools are laid out.

==AbsTk==
Potential mentors: Hisham, Andre, Jonas, Lucas

Several areas of GoboLinux use a toolkit abstraction layer called [http://gobolinux.org/abstk/ AbsTk], allowing the same interface to be used from the console as in X. AbsTk currently includes curses and Qt backends, with Qt the most complete. This project would be to add GTK+ support to the toolkit, and to extend the widget set so that Manager can be run from the console too. AbsTk provides a useful abstraction with the potential for application outside GoboLinux.

AbsTk is written in Python, so knowledge of that language would be required, and familiarity with the underlying toolkits would be beneficial also.

==CompileFarm==
Potential mentors: Lucas, Jonas, Andre, Hisham, Michael

CompileFarm is a service which automates the compilation of GoboLinux packages. Users can request special packages and architectures to the CompileFarm server, which will signal the event to slaves that will actually perform the compilation.

Work has just started in CompileFarm, and there are many things to be done, from creating its web interface (submit jobs, request status, download packages, get load average, manage slaves) to adjustments in its backend, ChrootCompile.

Students should have knowledge in Python and Bash scripting, as well as understanding the system tools and layout.

==Student proposals==
Project proposals not listed here can be submitted as well; consider sounding out the developers on [http://lists.gobolinux.org/mailman/listinfo/gobolinux-devel gobolinux-devel] first to fine-tune your plan and see whether it would be likely to be accepted. If you have a good project idea but don't want to implement it or aren't eligible, add it to this page for others to consider.


Also, please see our [[Summer of Code mentoring application]].