---
title: "The GoboLinux Way"
weight: 2
---

## Welcome to GoboLinux

The main task of a Linux distribution is to keep track of and organize the
programs in your computer, so that they work properly. GoboLinux is no different
from the others in this goal, but it adopts a fundamentally different approach
in solving this problem. Instead of scattering the files of programs around,
following the
[decades-old conventions](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filesystem_Hierarchy_Standard)
of ancient UNIX systems, and then adding a layer of control (a "package
manager") to try to give order to chaos, in GoboLinux we organize the files that
comprise the programs in an ordered way in the first place.

In GoboLinux, every program lives in its own subdirectory. Under the top level
directory `/Programs`; e.g you'll find Xorg 7.0 at `/Programs/Xorg/7.0`, and
ping at `/Programs/Netkit-Base/0.17/bin/ping`. To see what programs are
installed in the system, all you need to do is look in the `/Programs`
directory:

```fish
ls /Programs
```

For each category of files, there is a directory under `/System/Index` grouping
files from each application as symbolic links: `bin`, `lib`, `libexec`,
`include`, `share`, and `man`. For compatibility, each "legacy" UNIX directory
is a link to a corresponding category. Therefore, `/bin`, `/sbin`, `/usr/bin`,
`/usr/local/bin` (and so on) are all symlinks to entries under `/System/Index`.

In short, what we have is a database-less package management system: the
directory structure itself organizes the system. Wasn't that its original
purpose, after all? Each program directory (for example, `/Programs/KDE`) holds
version directories (`/Programs/KDE/3.4`, `/Programs/KDE/3.4.2`), and a
version-neutral directory for settings (`/Programs/KDE/Settings`), to keep files
that would normally be in `/etc`. Keeping two or more versions of a library is
trivial: upgrading LibPNG to 1.2.8 means adding `/Programs/LibPNG/1.2.8`, but
does not automatically imply that LibPNG 1.2.7 is removed. This way, if a
program depends on the previous version, it won't break. As you can see,
GoboLinux gives you a finer control of what is and isn't in the system.

Historical tidbit: _When most distributions switched to GCC 3 they released a
new major version, mostly incompatible with previous ones. In contrast, when the
006 series of GoboLinux adopted GCC 3, compatibility was preserved by simply
keeping old versions of libraries alongside the new ones, while they were
gradually phased out. No "compat" packages were needed._

## The "legacy" tree

Unfortunately, not all programs have the flexibility to be installed anywhere.
Occasionally, hardcoded paths creep in even in programs that belong to userland,
and should, at least theoretically, allow themselves to be installed inside,
say, a user's home directory.

As much as we'd like to see this done in the long term, patching all
applications is not an option. For this reason, GoboLinux keeps, as stated
earlier, a legacy tree where all usual Unix paths are mapped to GoboLinux
equivalents. That way, if a Makefile looks for
`/usr/X11R6/include/X11/Xaw3d/XawInit.h`, it will find it, although it is really
at `/Programs/Xaw3d/1.5/include/X11/Xaw3d/XawInit.h`, where it belongs. When two
applications have a directory entry with the same name, the GoboLinux scripts
recursively expand them. Both Xorg and Xaw3d have X11 under `include`. A
directory `/System/Index/include/X11` is created automatically, holding links
from both X11 directories.

Another interesting feature is that the GoboLinux scripts execute `make install`
using a special user id that only has write permissions inside the program's
source directories and the program's entry under `/Programs`. This way, files
can't "escape" from the GoboLinux hierarchy and slip a directory into the legacy
tree.

A detail that might surprise you at first is that when you look at the root
directory (with `ls` or graphical tools), you don't see the legacy directories,
even though you can `cd` into them. They are certainly there — they are just
kept hidden using [GoboHide]({{%relref "GoboHide" %}}), a kernel modification
designed to conceal the legacy tree from the usual system view. (GoboHide is of
course optional — GoboLinux works just as well using standard Linux kernels.)

## Influences and roots

As you read this, you have probably found many familiar concepts (not to mention
directory names). GoboLinux has clearly found inspiration in other operating
systems, like NeXT, BeOS and AtheOS, but it was the notion that they build
"something different" using an existing Unix base (be it using a BSD foundation
as in macOS, or using GNU tools as in AtheOS) was the most important influence
of all. There are several other projects, in various stages of development, that
use the Linux kernel as a foundation and feature alternative directory trees.
Interestingly, most of them are clones or heavily inspired by a specific
proprietary operating system. (At different points in time, we've seen clones of
RiscOS, NeXT, BeOS.)

GoboLinux, on the other hand, is not a clone of anything else. It uses standard
Linux desktop software. We believe that the well-organized directory structure
makes it a good testbed for new ideas — possibilities are wide open (see the
forum and moreso the mailing list for discussions, and to a lesser extent the
IRC channel `#gobolinux` on libera.chat).

## Differences between GoboLinux and a traditional Linux system

What follows is not a thorough description of GoboLinux, but a quick cheat-sheet
of facts that are good to know when you are getting acquainted to the system.

-   In the GoboLinux hierarchy, files are grouped by their functional category
    (executables, libraries, and so on). There are links at the classic
    directories you are used to (`/bin`, `/usr/bin`, and so on), but remember
    that they all point to the same place. This is a huge advantage, as it
    means, for example, that you'll never have to search for a library
    throughout your filesystem again -- it will always be in `/lib` (and in
    `/usr/lib`, because they point to the same place! -- no worries about
    compatibility).

-   There are symbolic links relating most of the usual UNIX directories to the
    GoboLinux tree. Therefore, you will find directories such as `/etc`,
    `/var/log` and `/usr/bin` in the expected places. However, some directories,
    such as the users' directories, didn't need to be linked to their "legacy"
    locations. This way, for a given user called "joe", you'll have, instead of
    `/home/joe`, `/Users/joe`. Notice also that the superuser's directory is no
    different than the ones from the other users, so, root's directory is at
    `/Users/root`. Mount points are under `/Mount`, not `/mnt`.

-   Another major difference between GoboLinux and most Linux distributions is
    that it does not use a BSD nor a System V initialization procedure. Instead,
    it has its own. At `/System/Settings/BootScripts` you will find a few files
    that command the entire boot procedure: BootUp and Shutdown run at system
    boot and shutdown, respectively; you can define custom "runlevel" scripts to
    define different ways you want your system to be initialized (say, Single
    and Multi for single and multi-user, Graphical for boot into graphic mode,
    etc.) and control that from the boot loader menu. The
    `/System/Settings/BootOptions` file separate site-specific settings from the
    rest of the scripts. You can also find a library of application specific
    tasks at `/System/Tasks` that can be used during boot (those are installed
    by the apps).

For a better overview of how it looks and feels right, nothing beats giving the
Live CD a spin. You'll be running a full GoboLinux system without having to
install anything. Just burn a CD-ROM and give it a go!
