This page collects the feedback received (mainly through the mailing list) about [[GoboLinux 012]]:

* If your CD-ROM is on your third IDE channel (like /dev/hde) then the live CD will fail, leaving you with the BusyBox prompt. This is what you can do then:
<blockquote>
] mount / -o remount,rw <br/>
] cd /dev <br/>
] mknod hde b 33 0 <br/>
] mount /dev/hde /Mount/CD-ROM <br/>
] /etc/rc <br/>
</blockquote>
* Some users are experiencing problems blanking CD-RW's with cdrecord. Running 'cdrdao blank --device ATAPI:/dev/<cdrom_device>' is a temporary fix for that.
* Installer for base system does not set up for lp0; Add the following to /Programs/[[BootScripts]]/Settings/[[BootOptions]]: "UserDefinedModules=(lp)".
* If you experience font problems, make sure that /System/Settings/fonts/local.conf is a symlink to /Programs/Fontconfig/Settings/fonts/local.conf, and that it includes the following lines:
<blockquote>
<dir>/Files/Fonts/TrueType</dir> <br/>
<dir>/Files/Fonts/OpenType</dir> <br/>
<dir>/Files/Fonts/Type1</dir> <br/>
</blockquote>
* GCC package: Objective C support is missing. (use 3.4.3 Recipe, not 4.0.0 - there seems to be something broken upstream in 4.0.0 for Objective C).
* The GnuPG (Cyrus-Sasl?), XMMS (Nvidia?), Xorg and Links (SDL and Esound?) packages all had some odd dependencies.
* Xorg depended on Mesa depended on XFree.
* Man-Pages conflicted with a lot of other packages.
* Man has a config file in lib, overriding Settings.
* Popt is installed, but needed to be [[SymlinkProgram]]'ed.
* ALSA-driver package's "Current" directory is not a link, but a regular (mostly empty) directory. (Update: Can be deleted without harm, alsa drivers compiled as modules in the stock kernel)
* Mouse Scroll wheel autodetection problems reported.
* KDE-Network should depend on Cyrus-SASL package. I had to install it by hand.
* SATA and SCSI disc drives: one must 'modprobe sd_mod' and launch 'udevstart'. After creating partitions and calling 'Installer', the fstab on the target partition must be modified to add the root filesystem by hand, such as '/System/Kernel/Devices/sda1 / reiserfs defaults 0 0':
* Need to add SCSI (sd*) support to GenFstab.
* Need to rerun 'udevstart' after partitioning SATA drive to create /S/K/D/sda# nodes.
* PCMCIA support: edit [[BootUp]] (to add in "cardmgr" right before "Network Start"), Shutdown (to add the line "cardctl eject" at the end) and [[BootOptions]] (to add "pcnet_cs" in the section to add modules to the LoadModules script).
* /var/lock has wrong permissions; run 'chmod 777 /var/lock'
* Gimp-Print has a bogus Current directory; in order to fix, run: cd /Programs/Gimp-Print; rm -Rf Current; ln -s 4.2.7 Current; [[SymlinkProgram]] Gimp-Print
* [[LiveCD]]: off/reboot/shutdown commands don't work. One must issue a CTRL-ALT-DEL
* [[Installer]]: is it really needed to ask for a gateway when specified that DHCP will be used to assign an IP address to the machine?
* Installer: it should be interesting to ask what to do with the remaining partitions (mount points, etc)
* Modules for SMP kernel are being installed even on single-processor machines
* SMP kernel not linked in /System/Kernel/Boot for Athlon dual core
* The cupsd.conf configuration file for CUPS has "gobo" entries even when superuser name is "root".
* When inserting USB HD get following errors in kernel/message log.  Device nodes sometimes created.
from log/kernel:
<blockquote>
Sep  8 17:20:37 (none) kernel: usb-storage: device scan complete <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 8 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 65 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 66 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 67 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 68 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 69 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 70 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 71 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 128 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 129 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 130 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 131 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 132 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 133 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 134 for sd <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) kernel: register_blkdev: cannot get major 135 for sd <br/>
</blockquote>
from log/messages:
<blockquote>
Sep  8 17:20:37 (none) udev[3444]: configured rule in '/System/Settings/udev/rules.d/50-udev.rules[125]' applied, 'sg1' becomes '%k' <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:37 (none) udev[3444]: creating device node '/System/Kernel/Devices/sg1' <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:37 (none) udev[3442]: configured rule in '/System/Settings/udev/rules.d/50-udev.rules[121]' applied, 'sdb' becomes '%k' <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:37 (none) udev[3442]: creating device node '/System/Kernel/Devices/sdb' <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) udev[3448]: configured rule in '/System/Settings/udev/rules.d/50-udev.rules[122]' applied, 'sdb2' becomes '%k' <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) udev[3448]: creating device node '/System/Kernel/Devices/sdb2' <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) udev[3447]: configured rule in '/System/Settings/udev/rules.d/50-udev.rules[122]' applied, 'sdb1' becomes '%k' <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) udev[3447]: creating device node '/System/Kernel/Devices/sdb1' <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) udev[3449]: configured rule in '/System/Settings/udev/rules.d/50-udev.rules[122]' applied, 'sdb3' becomes '%k' <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) udev[3449]: creating device node '/System/Kernel/Devices/sdb3' <br/>
Sep  8 17:20:38 (none) scsi.agent[3398]: disk at /devices/pci0000:00/0000:00:02.1/usb1/1-10/1-10:2.0/host6/target6:0:0/6:0:0:0 <br/>
</blockquote>
* USB memory sticks: it's interesting to add the following rule to /System/Settings/udev/rules.d/50-udev.rules:
<blockquote>
#memory stick USB Mass Storage Device <br/>
BUS="usb", SYSFS{product}="USB Mass Storage Device", KERNEL="sd?*", <br/>
NAME="%k", SYMLINK="usb_flash" <br/>
 <br/>
BUS="scsi", SYSFS{model}="SM CARD Reader*", NAME{all_partitions}="smartmedia" <br/>
BUS="scsi", SYSFS{model}="CF CARD Reader*", NAME{all_partitions}="compactflash" <br/>
BUS="scsi", SYSFS{model}="SD CARD Reader*", NAME{all_partitions}="securedigital" <br/>
BUS="scsi", SYSFS{model}="MS CARD Reader*", NAME{all_partitions}="memorystick" <br/>
BUS="scsi", SYSFS{vendor}="Sony*", SYSFS{model}="Sony DSC*", NAME="sony-dsc%n" <br/>
</blockquote>
Some very helpful articles I found on udev, as I found the switch sudden and confusing.  Now I have more of an idea it makes a lot of sense, and figuring out where to find information.  I had looked in my messages to find out where things were mounted, but the information was confusing.
:*http://www.debian-administration.org/articles/126 
:*http://wiki.archlinux.org/index.php/Using_udev_to_map_multiple_entries_to_a_device 

Adjust paths as necessary.  A more detailed writeup of Udev in Gobo can be found at [[Udev Howto]]
* If wrong/no network card module is loaded by the kernel, the network setup is skipped in installer.
* Apparently the Installer uses NetMask instead of Netmask and that confuses the network scripts.
* X is not initiated correctly from scratch, but one must log in as root and startx before any normal user can start X.

{{Community}}
