== Other options ==

==== compile_version=<version-number> ====
''Valid modes: all''

The version number of Compile used to create this recipe.

==== environment=(<array of variables>) ====
''Valid modes: all''

Environment variables to be applied to the shell where the compilation takes place. Each entry of the array must be in the format "variable=value".

Example:
 environment=(
     "PYTHONOPTIMIZE=2"
 )

==== uncompress=no ====
''Valid modes: all''

Used for urls where the files are going to be used directly. Not a common option.

==== unpack_files ====
''Valid modes: all''

''Possible values:'' '''inside_first, contents_inside_first, dirs, files_in_root'''.

Relevant when "files=(more than one file to download)" is used, or when a single archive has
"loose files" without an enclosing directory.

By default, all entries in "files" are unpacked in the same
directory. This flag can be used to override this behavior.
"inside_first" tells it to unpack "files[0]" and then unpack
all subsequent files inside the resulting directory.

"contents_inside_first" tells it to unpack "files[0]", then unpack the remaining files,
and move the contents of the resulting unpacked "dirs" into the first directory.

"dirs" tells it to use the directories explicitly specified in
the "dirs" array as destinations for each file.

For example, if "files" is (foo.tar.gz bar.tar.gz) and
foo.tar.gz contains
foo/1      foo/2
and bar.tar.gz contains
foo/3      bar/4      bar/5
The default unpacking behavior, without redefining "dirs" explicitly, generates:
foo/1      foo/2      foo/3      bar/4      bar/5
"unpack_files=inside_first" generates
foo/1      foo/2      foo/foo/3      foo/bar/4      foo/bar/5
"unpack_files=contents_inside_first" generates
foo/1      foo/2      foo/3      foo/4      foo/5

Using "dirs", virtually any path structure can be used. Since
the first entry in the "dirs" array is special, it is not used
by "unpack_files".
If any of the "dirs" entries contains the value of the "target"
array, the "keep_existing_target" is implied (it can still be
explicitly overridden in the recipe, but then the user might
delete the data that was just unpacked).

Using "files_in_root", Compile assumes files are stored in the
archive without a directory. A directory is created so that
files are unpacked inside it, avoiding scattering files in
$compileSourcesDir (typically /Data/Compile/Sources).

==== dir=<directory> ====
==== dirs=(<array of directories>) ====
''Valid modes: all''

Indicates the directory to "cd" into after the package is unpacked.
If not specified, the name of the package file (stripped of its
extension) is assumed.
If "dirs" is used instead of "dir", "dirs" is expected to
contain the same number of entries as "urls".
The first entry in the array is special: the compilation method
is applied only on the first directory. To compile multiple packages
into a single program, use meta-packages ('is_meta').
The usage of "dirs" affects the way files are unpacked. See
"unpack_files" for details.

==== docs=(<array of filenames>) ====
''Valid modes: all''

A list of filenames, relative to the program's sources root,
of files to be copied to the program's doc/ dir (or doc/$app/
for meta-packages).  Wildcards are supported but must be
single-quoted. Note that some default names such as README*,
AUTHORS and TODO are automatically fetched.

Example:

   docs=(
      'docs/*.html'
   )

==== create_dirs_first=yes ====
''Valid modes: configure, makefile''

By default, Compile only generates directories in the target location
right before the installation step. This is useful for the --no-install
option (see the [[Compile]] reference entry). Unfortunately, some
programs fail during the configuration of compilation step if the
target directory does not already exist. Use this entry to appease those
programs.

==== keep_existing_target=yes ====
''Valid modes: all''

When set, it will not ask the user if they want to erase the
contents of the $target (if any) prior to compiling the program.
This is implicitly set if the "dirs" array contains any reference
to "target". See "unpack_files" for details.

==== build_variables=(<array of assignments>) ====
''Valid modes: configure, makefile, scons''

An array used when redefining variables for the first execution
of make

Example:
 build_variables=(
    "DESTDIR=$target"
    "MANDIR=$target/man/man1"
 )

==== install_variables=(<array of assignments>) ====
''Valid modes: configure, makefile, scons''

Variables to be passed to "make install". See '''build_variables'''.

==== make_variables=(<array of assignments>) ====
''Valid modes: configure, makefile''

Variables to be passed to both "make" and "make install".
A shorthand to avoid having to set everything twice, once
in '''build_variables''' and then again in '''install_variables'''.

==== makefile=<makefile name> ====
''Valid modes: configure, makefile, xmkmf''

By default the makefile is assumed to be called
"Makefile". Use this variable to override this value.
See the note in '''configure''' for observations about
directory names given in variables of this kind.

Examples (only one applies at a time):
 makefile=GNUmakefile
 makefile=makefile
 makefile=Makefile.linux

==== make=<make command> ====
''Valid modes: configure, makefile, xmkmf''

By default the make command is assumed to be called "make".
This variable can be used to override this value/

Example:
 make=unsermake

==== build_target=<make target> ====
''Valid modes: configure, makefile, xmkmf, python, scons''

The target to be used when calling make or equivalent build
script/program to build the program. More than one target
may be given at a time, separating them with spaces in
a single declaration (you must use quotes).

Examples (only one applies at a time):
 build_target=World
 build_target="all shared"

==== install_target=<make target> ====
''Valid modes: configure, makefile, xmkmf, python, scons''

The target to be used when calling make or equivalent build
script/program to build the program. More than one target
may be given at a time, separating them with spaces in
a single declaration (you must use quotes).

Example:
 install_target="install install.man install_shared"

==== do_build=no ====
''Valid modes: configure, makefile, python''

Compile should skip the "build" phase, and only
do the "install" run. That is, for Makefile-based recipes,
it should run make only once.

==== do_install=no ====
''Valid modes: configure, makefile, xmkmf, python, scons''

Compile should skip the "install" phase, and only
do the "build" run. That is, for Makefile-based recipes,
it should run make only once.

==== needs_build_directory=yes ====
''Valid modes: configure''

Some programs like Glibc recommend that a directory is
created and used as a working path during the execution of
configure and make. Use of this variable is transparent
to other relative paths in other variables (such as '''configure'''),
but be aware that this special "build" directory will be active
as a working directory during the hook shell functions, instead
of '''dir'''.

==== needs_safe_linking=yes ====
'''Deprecated?'''
''Valid modes: all''

This option was used in older versions of the Scripts package
to ensure that some critical programs were symlinked into
the /System/Index hierarchy in a single step.

==== override_default_options=yes ====
''Valid modes: configure, python, scons''

Compile chooses some options by default according to
the specified target type. In configure recipes, it
passes some standard autoconf options to the configure script;
in python recipes, distutils options for the Python build script;
in scons recipes, some standard options passed in invocations
of scons.py.
Use this option to disable those options and have your own
options (given in configure_options or python_options) overwrite
instead of append the option list.

==== post_install_message="message" ====
''Valid modes: all''

A message to display to the user after installation.

==== sandbox_options=(<array of options>) ====
''Valid modes: all''

Additional options to be passed to [[SandboxInstall]]. This
is typically used to expand the sandbox to allow additional
directories in ''special'' situations (such as the installation
of kernel modules). ''Avoid'' using this option as much as
possible, and make sure you know what you're doing when
you do use it.

Example:
 sandbox_options=(
    "--no-sandbox"
 )

==== symlink_options=(<array of options>) ====
''Valid modes: all''

Additional options to be passed to [[SymlinkProgram]]. This
should be used sparingly, in order to remedy unusual situations
(the FreeType package used it to avoid a XFree86 conflict which
affected the proper functioning of the system). ''Avoid'' using
this option if possible; there are almost always better alternatives.

Example:
 symlink_options=(
    "--conflict overwrite"
 )

==== unmanaged_files=(<files>) ====
''Valid modes: all''

Files to be installed in an unmanaged way to system locations such as /System/Variable. One cannot install files under /Programs using this array.

Basically, unmanaged files are used to place files outside a program's $target directory, and are to be used only when no real alternatives exist. That is, you should not use this array to install files under /usr just because the recipe's makefile define it as the default install location (this can be fixed by changing the makefile variable defining it to $target).
Good examples of such files are kernel modules, which can't be linked but need to be actually present under /System/Kernel/Modules.

==== with_<flag> ====
''Valid modes: cabal, cmake, configure, makefile, python, scons''

These are options to be appended to configure_options (or equivalent) in the event that the use flag ''flag'' is set.

For instance,
 with_gtk="--with-gtk=$gtk__path"

Or to add multiple configure options:
 with_gtk=(
    "--with-gtk=$gtk_path"
    "--with-foo=$foo_path"
    "--with-bar=$bar_path"
 )
See [[Use flags]].
<!--
=== Backwards Compatibility ===
These options are included for compatibility with old recipes.  They should not be used.
*  '''is_compileprogram=yes''' is equivalent to '''recipe_type=configure'''
*  '''is_makefile=yes''' is equivalent to '''recipe_type=makefile'''
*  '''is_python=yes''' is equivalent to '''recipe_type=python'''
*  '''is_xmkmf=yes''' is equivalent to ''' recipe_type=xmkmf'''
*  '''is_scons=yes''' is equivalent to '''recipe_type=scons'''
*  '''is_manifest=yes''' is equivalent to ''' recipe_type=manifest'''
*  '''is_meta=yes''' is equivalent to '''recipe_type=meta'''
-->
