GetAvailable.conf is the file where you can configure paths and URLs used to locate binary packages.

It is stored at /Programs/Scripts/Settings/Scripts/GetAvailable.conf -- which, once installed, has a link at /System/Settings/Scripts/GetAvailable.conf (if you're used to the [[GoboLinux]] tree, you should know by now that this is the same as /etc/Scripts/GetAvailable.conf).

These are the usual contents of the file:

The timeout (in seconds) when trying to fetch the packages list from a sever.
<blockquote>
timeout=15 <br/>
</blockquote>

The paths from which local packages will be automatically be found. Notice that both compressed (e.g. /Depot/Packages/Qt--4.0.0--i686.tar.bz2) and uncompressed (e.g. /Mount/[[SquashFS]]/Programs/Qt/4.0.0) packages can be matched.
<blockquote>
defaultLocalPackagesPaths=( <br/>
"/Depot/Packages" <br/>
"/Mount/SquashFS/Programs" <br/>
"/Mount/CD-ROM/Depot/Packages/" <br/>
"." <br/>
) <br/>
</blockquote>

The URLS from which lists of official binary packages (packed by some core developer) will be retrieved.
<blockquote>
officialPackagesLists=( <br/>
'http://kundor.org/gobo/packages/official/MANIFEST.bz2' <br/>
'http://gobo.calica.com/packages/official/MANIFEST.bz2' <br/>
) <br/>
</blockquote>

The URLS from which lists of contributed binary packages (contributed by some user, and placed, without garanties, at our servers) will be retrieved.
<blockquote>
contribPackagesLists=( <br/>
'http://kundor.org/gobo/packages/contrib/MANIFEST.bz2' <br/>
'http://gobo.calica.com/packages/contrib/MANIFEST.bz2' <br/>
) <br/>
</blockquote>

The URLS from which lists of tracked versions will be retrieved. A tracked version is a program version that actually may not have a correspondent Recipe or binary package, but that is already made available by the program developers

<blockquote>
trackedVersionsLists=( <br/>
'http://gobolinux.org/version-tracker/TrackedVersions.bz2' <br/>
) <br/>
</blockquote>

{{Handbook}}
