{{Template:Handbook Navigation}}

* '''/Programs/''' - The programs directories. Under this directory, you find a subdirectory per program. Each program directory, on its turn, contains one or more version directories, and optionally, Settings and Variable subdirectories. See section "[[Anatomy of a package]]" for details on the structure of programs directories.
* '''/Users/''' - The users' home directories. Let's say you have a user on your system called ''will''. The ''will'' home directory will be /Users/will. Even the superuser (typically called ''root'') has its home under /Users. It's possible to put /Users in a separate partition, so you won't have to worry about moving your personal files around when reinstalling/formatting, though in typical systems it's easier to keep the whole system in a single partition so that managing free space is easier.
{{question | what about a /Users/username/Settings directory to hold all the application generated files in one place instead of cluttering the user directory root (.kde, .zshrc, ... would become /Users/username/Settings/.kde) ?}}
* '''/System/''' - Crucial system files. Most are managed by system applications (e.g. /System/Settings/passwd) and [[GoboLinux]] scripts (e.g. /System/Links).
** '''Links/''' - Contains "links" directories that index the files under /Programs.
*** '''Environment/''' - Links to environment files. These are compiled into a Cache file and loaded by the shell, allowing programs to register their own environment variables.
*** '''Executables/''' - Contains links to files from the programs' bin and sbin directories.
*** '''Headers/''' - This directory contains links to files from the programs' include directories.
*** '''Libraries/''' - Links to files from the programs' lib directories.
*** '''Manuals/''' - Contents of manuals and info directories.
**** '''info''' - Links to files from the programs' info directories.
**** '''man{1-9}/''' - Links to files from the programs' man{1-9} directories.
*** '''Shared/''' - Links to files from the programs' share directories.
*** '''Tasks/''' - Links to the programs' boot tasks from their Resources/Tasks directories.
** '''Settings/''' - Configuration files and links to files from the programs' Settings directories.
*** '''BootScripts/''' - Scripts used during system boot. Actually, this is a symlink to Settings/BootScripts/ on /Programs/BootScripts.
** '''Variable/''' - Multi-purpose log, temporary, transient and spool files.
*** '''tmp/''' - Temporary files.
** '''Kernel/''' - Kernel-related directories.
*** '''Boot/''' - Programs and configuration files used during operating system bootstrap. This is where the kernel image and bootloader configuration files are located.
*** '''Devices/''' - Device files (managed by Udev).
*** '''Modules/''' - Contains the various kernel modules, organized by the kernel release.
*** '''Objects/''' - Provides a view of the kernel's device tree (introduced with the sysfs filesystem in the kernel 2.6 series).
*** '''Status/''' - Kernel status files (managed by the proc filesystem ).
* '''/Files/''' - Files hold structured data that are used by programs but that are not part of the programs themselves. Those files are usually stand-alone entities, like fonts, codecs and plugins (and as such, do not require package management). Additionally, applications may define subdirectories of their own to store site-specific data -- [[Compile]] uses it.
** '''Codecs/''' - multimedia players such as MPlayer are configured with this path as the location to find external codecs.
** '''Documentation/''' - how-to documents on various subjects
** '''Fonts/''' - fonts (character typefaces, as used by the X Window System, Ghostscript and the Linux console). Contains subdirectories such as '''TrueType'''. Font path configuration for X can be found in /System/Settings/X11/xorg.conf and /System/Settings/fonts/fonts.conf.
** '''Plugins/''' - plugins, such as the ones needed by browsers
** '''Compile/''' - Recipes, packages, sources, etc. used by the [[Compile]] tool.
* '''/Mount/''' - mounting point for additional local or remote filesystems. Common subdirectories are '''CD-ROM''', '''Floppy''' and '''Zip'''.
* '''/Depot/''' - repository for users' files. This repository is meant to be organized as the user sees fit. No subdirectories of /Depot are considered part of the standard [[GoboLinux]] hierarchy.


Here is an overview of the filesystem tree.
The legacy folders (on the ":" part of the tree) are hidden by [[GoboHide]]; as you can see they are links to the GoboLinux folders.
<pre>
/
|-- Depot
|-- Files
|   |-- Compile
|   |   |-- Archives
|   |   |-- Sources
|   |   `-- Store
|   |-- Descriptions
|   |-- Fonts
|   `-- Wallpapers
|-- Mount
|-- Programs
|-- System
|   |-- Kernel
|   |   |-- Boot
|   |   |-- Devices
|   |   |-- Modules
|   |   |-- Objects
|   |   `-- Status
|   |-- Links
|   |   |-- Environment
|   |   |-- Executables
|   |   |-- Headers
|   |   |-- Libraries
|   |   |-- Manuals
|   |   |-- Shared
|   |   `-- Tasks
|   |-- Settings
|   `-- Variable
|       |-- cache
|       |-- empty
|       |-- lib
|       |-- lock
|       |-- log
|       |-- run
|       |-- spool
|       `-- tmp
|-- Users
:
:
:-- etc  -> System/Settings
:-- dev  -> System/Kernel/Devices
:-- sys  -> System/Kernel/Objects
:-- proc -> System/Kernel/Status
:-- var  -> System/Variable
:-- tmp  -> System/Variable/tmp
:-- sbin -> System/Links/Executables
:-- bin  -> System/Links/Executables
:-- lib  -> System/Links/Libraries
`-- usr
    |-- X11R6   -> .
    |-- local   -> .
    |-- sbin    -> ../System/Links/Executables
    |-- bin     -> ../System/Links/Executables
    |-- include -> ../System/Links/Headers
    |-- lib     -> ../System/Links/Libraries
    |-- man     -> ../System/Links/Manuals
    `-- share   -> ../System/Links/Shared
</pre>

{{Handbook}}